
第1条评论: The entire Three Body Problem trilogy is fantastic. Cixin Liu is a master SF storyteller. I recommend to any SF fan.
第2条评论: This trilogy really made me think and explains the Fermi Paradox better than any other treatise that I have read.
第3条评论: I began the Three-Body Problem because it was listed on Barak Obama book list...and I'm a scifi reader.  I just finished the trilogy.  Even though the last book (Death's End) was over 600 pages, I didn't want it to end.  It was mind boggling in a most dazzling way.  The sensation of different dimensions was so tangible.  The entire trilogy was epic.  Both Cixin Liu & Ken Liu have taken hard scifi to a grand new level.
第4条评论: Enjoyed the complex science fiction story, especially the wonderful use of math and physics.  The dimensional and spacial analysis was very creative.  I like books that make me think.
第5条评论: Death’s End. The title of the final installment gives away what is coming, but whose death? You need to travel an unimaginably long and jaw-dropping journey to find out who/what ceased to exist. Mr. Liu Cixin – or “Big Liu”, a fond nickname invented by his fans in China – now is not only the best sci-fi writer from China, but also one of the best on earth.Remember how far we have come from? The whole story started in around 1960s as China went through a horrible period of political turmoil. When senseless mobs beat a little girl’s father to death in public, her faith in humanity was shaken and lost. Her solution was to seek help from species of other planets, thus changing the course of humanity. As a result numerous lives were lost in the ensuing battles and conflicts. But two unlikely heroes came to rescue – Mr. Luo Ji devised a way to blackmail and diffuse the Trisolarian invasion, and Mr. Zhang Beihai managed to save and plant a human seed far away from the Earth.Did both strategies work? The Death’s End provides the final answer. The main character of the third book is another woman (Ms. Cheng Xin). She is smart but weak, and the choice she made in this book will be long debated among the Three-Body fans. But does it really matter at the end? It appears that, regardless of her choice, the fate of humanity was inevitably sealed. I will say this, that two women, Ye Wenjie in book one and Cheng Xin in book three, pretty much decided the course and the ending (a feminism analysis of Big Liu is due).There are so many refreshing gems in the Death’s End that makes the book irresistible. For example, how to send a communication device to Trisolaris but the device must have minimum amount of weight and can survive long distance of space travel? Big Liu’s answer was plainly crazy yet sensible. For example, Big Liu rebranded himself temporarily and inserted a long and intriguing fairytale, yes, you are reading this correctly, a fairytale about how an evil prince stealing the throne of a kingdom and a princess fighting back. Finally, a stupendous weapon called the “dual vector foil”. I don’t want to elaborate. Let’s just say that if you are still reading my comment here, you are not affected by this weapon (yet).Besides sci-fi and fairytales, Big Liu clearly likes to write detective stories, which are dotted throughout this book series. Book one began with a scientist trying to figure out what was wrong with his vision and who was behind all the suicides of other scientists. Book two had a heavy dose of mouse-and-cat game between wallfacers and wallbreakers. Book three involved many experts (scientists, intelligence officers, and professors in literature) trying to decipher the true meaning of the fairytale. These plots will keep you guessing and add extra thrill.Finally, the ending. So much happened while ions went by in the final pages. I remember many people complaining about the slow pace of book one. When u reach the end of book three, u will instead suffer whiplashes. I had to turn back and go over many pages again asking what the F is going and trying to make sense of what is happening. Suffice to say that it is a finish that I have never seen it before in any sci-fi literature. Probably the GRANDEST and the MOST INSANE ending of all.Go read it, and start to marvel and tremble.
第6条评论: If you love science and scientists, and are ready for the wildest ride of your life, this trilogy is for you.
第7条评论: Maybe a little long with a few eye rolling moments and predictability at times but worth the read if you like science fiction.
第8条评论: I really enjoyed the first book and thought the second was an awesome expansion on all the ideas raised by the central premise: What if we found out that we'd be wiped out by aliens in 400 years? How would society change? What might happen? Liu's scientific animation of these ideas is always fascinating, even if his more social/political prescriptions aren't as convincing (case in point - how amazingly effective the UN is in all these books). However, I found that by this third entry, things really do drag on.Each book is about 100 pages longer than the last, with Liu taking his time to diverge into various indulgences and tangents - for example, the second book had a long section about how amazingly powerful the mind of a novelist is; this book begins with a chapter set in late-period Byzantine times. This book feels like it is mostly a collection of these sorts of tangents. It covers TONS of time compared to the other two books, and as a result we don't stay with any one setting for very long. Overall I'd say it was a satisfying conclusion when it finally got there, but I am disappointed. The Dark Forest was incredible; this is... okay.Part of the reason it drags so much is because the author spends a lot of time revealing his own psychology to the reader. In this book he tries to ret-con a ton of details that just seem really odd. For instance, one of our perspective characters awakens to a time about 250 years in our future and observes that society has become "feminized," with men being indistinguishable from lithe, delicate women. (If this were true of this universe in book 2, when Luo Ji awoke in the same time period he should have noticed this as well). The author mentions this detail about feminine men and a feminized society at literally every opportunity; characters are constantly in awe of just how beautiful, sensual, delicate and feminine everyone and everything is. Tonally, it's just weird and functionally, it is a very clumsy ret-con. I have no clue whether it's an intentional riff on how modern-day right wing personalities sometimes rant against the "feminization" of society (for instance, the fact that men are more open now about their emotional lives is, to some deranged souls, a sign of the end times), but it is similar in that it tells us more about the author than about his subject.There are just so many hints towards the author's inner life and fetishes. There's an obvious self-insert character of a forever-alone, failed scientist cancer patient who buys a star for his crush (anonymously) and volunteers to be euthanized and sent to space on her behalf (Talk about an orbiter!!!). In his mind, his miserable life is fully redeemed just for the mere chance of garnering this woman's attention. Another example is the character of Sophon, the robotic Trisolaran ambassador, who, despite this book primarily taking place in China, with Chinese characters, chooses to present itself as an anime-like Japanese woman (stunningly beautiful, of course, to everyone's constant awe) complete with a katana. What could the reason for this possibly be except to indulge the author? These strange details and obsessions do make the book enjoyable simply as an artifact of weirdness.
第9条评论: When I read Three-Body Problem I felt that the book was overrated; having finished the trilogy, I still think that the whole trilogy is way overrated. I feel like I'm taking crazy pills. Maybe a different crowd than usual is reading these books and finds them to be very engaging, I don’t know. By way of background, I read quite a bit of sci-fi and generally towards the hard end, e.g. Peter Watts, but also softer stuff like the Culture, Dune, Scalzi, that sort of stuff.Death's End, and the other books in the series, all suffer from the same problems. The books have some interesting  "hard sci-fi" ideas as their foundation, like the three-body in the eponymous first book, a specific solution to the Fermi paradox in the second, and so on. But it’s all undermined by two critical flaws:(1) The characterization is terrible. All the characters, especially the non-Chinese ones, are almost comically cartoonish one-dimensional caricatures who don’t feel, act, or behave like actual humans. Imagine that each character has a defining trait, and then just take it way over the top.(2) The plot is repeatedly driven, in a very ham-fisted way, by incomprehensible behavior and decisions that for me completely break suspension of disbelief.In Three Body Problem, I racked these problems up to having something to do with Chinese literary culture or style. I’m less sure by now that we can’t fault Liu Cixin more for these issues. It’s also worth noting that I wouldn’t consider this trilogy to be a very good example of hard sci-fi. Hard sci-fi is stereotypically known for weak characterization, e.g. if you think of Stephen Baxter’s work, but usually the problem is neglect in favor of exploring the world-building elements of the story; here the problem is not neglect, but just bad characterization. Furthermore, while the science and physics at core are reasonably good as far as I can tell, especially in the first one but less so as the story progresses, Liu Cixin has no problems delving into quasi-magic when needed to ham-fist the plot. Starting for example with the 11-dimensional, capable of traveling at light-speed, proton-sized supercomputer sophons.The rest of the review has some specific things (spoilers) that bothered me about Death’s End.**SPOILERS BELOW**- After humans’ deterrence ability is revealed and the first trisolaris fleet changes course, it’s rather patently obvious that the trisolarans are trying to social engineer humanity to reduce the chances that they will trigger mutually assured destruction. How is it possible nobody in humanity is picking up on this?- You’d imagine that there are plenty of military types who can trigger armageddon when needed, and that since we have more than 70 years of experience with this sort of issue since the start of the Cold War, it wouldn’t be that hard to identify someone who if needed will push the red button.- After the coordinates of Trisolaris and the solar system have been revealed and you know both will be attacked, how the hell does it not occur to you to send some generation ships out into the galaxy, just in case, instead of putting all of your eggs into one basket and trying to ride out the attack by hiding behind the gas giants? Clearly since the bases there are capable of keeping humans alive long-term without a sun, which will be destroyed in the expected photon strike, why not strap a fusion engine to a couple of smaller stations and send them out?- Conversely, for Trisolaris, why put all your eggs in the Earth basket? You’ve got probes (the sophons) capable of light speed and instant communication back home, maybe try to find star systems that aren’t inhabited by a potential existential threat (and which has already demonstrated the theoretical capacity to broadcast via tingling its sun).- Seems pretty inconceivable that humanity would count on the destruction of the sun via photoid strike based on having observed _two_ previous strikes, without some effort spent on alternative contingencies. Especially considering how seriously the much more advanced Trisolarans take this threat.
第10条评论: A mind-bending exploration of dimensionality, time, the universal laws of physics and the future of humanity. Hard to believe any author could not only conceive these pieces and render them visible, but also create a page-turning plot. Huzzah!
第11条评论: Great seller and fast shipping.The book falls in line with the two others of the trilogy. Great hard science fiction and my beginning into Chinese literature.
第12条评论: A mind blowing epic that will challenge your perception of your world, galaxy, and universe.  A trippy, complex, and amazingly told story reminiscent of Asimov's Foundation series that follows society across centuries.
第13条评论: One of the greatest series I've ever experienced. Vast, complex, terrifying, joyful, and sad. I'm  changed, and the better for having read it.
第14条评论: I loved the first 2 books but Deaths End seemed kinda pieced together and a bit random as a series of vignettes. Overall the trilogy was a great read and I generally don’t enjoy Sci-fi
第15条评论: I enjoyed the entire trilogy and hope Amazon promotes more Chinese fiction.  This trilogy is well thought out science and fiction......imaginative.....thoughtful......thoroughly enjoyable.
第16条评论: Interesting ideas about physics and buried allegories for our modern world.
第17条评论: The translation again has made this as readable as the first in the series was.
第18条评论: This is the third book in the science fiction trilogy. Brilliant story, but ending was a bit bizarre and difficult to grasp. Won't disclose the ending but will let other readers react to it and see what their take is.
第19条评论: I liked it but I thought the second book was the best of the three.
第20条评论: Great ending of Great trilogy. Every one of them is extraordinary and worth reading. Really surprising and chilling, I am not going to spoil.
第21条评论: Finest series of books since the passing of Iain M. Banks.
第22条评论: Very nice.
第23条评论: Beautiful book, like the others. A worthy end to a remarkable story.
第24条评论: Incredibly well written.  Thoughtful writing and novel style.
第25条评论: Simply the best sci-fi book I've ever read. Epic and thought provoking.
第26条评论: Book 1 & 2 are the best I have read during the last year, the third book is not even half as good as the two first, sorry!
第27条评论: An amazing trilogy.
第28条评论: Amazing concept and executed well. Great read, buy it!
第29条评论: Great conclusion (so far, not quite done) to a great series
第30条评论: great science fiction.
第31条评论: Amazing
第32条评论: such innovative ideas
第33条评论: Simply fascinating.
第34条评论: Finally, it published!
第35条评论: Awesome
第36条评论: Good Trilogy
第37条评论: brilliant work!
第38条评论: awesome
第39条评论: It has a few brilliant ideas, but overall it's boring and with no real coclusion
第40条评论: These novels are ambitious, no doubt about it.  But also frustrating.  There is a bleak sense of futility throughout the novels that comes to a climax in Death's End.  The theoretical science comes fast and furious and many (smarter than the reader) characters just go with it.  This series also is very episodic, though there is an overarching plotline that either overshadows or gets sidelined depending on the where the author takes the narrative.  If you like the last 20 minutes of movies "2001: A Space Odyssey" or "Interstellar", then this series is for you.  I enjoyed much of it, but I found myself slogging through book 3 because I am a bit of a completionist.  I did not derive much satisfaction from the final chapters.
第41条评论: everybody should read this .
第42条评论: Great book and great series.
第43条评论: Read it!
第44条评论: Fantastic story in this trilogy.
第45条评论: Epic! So many fascinating ideas and storylines. This is what modern science fiction should be.
第46条评论: This is currently my sci-fi book of the year. An incredible end to the series.
第47条评论: As described, thanks
第48条评论: An excellent conclusion to the series with plenty of new ideas and situations.
第49条评论: A beautiful, haunting conclusion to one of the most thought provoking series I've ever read.
第50条评论: Death's End takes the reader into a fantastical far-fetched, based on sound science.
第51条评论: What a conclusion! This is by far the 3 individual best sci-fi and also the best series I have read since god knows when. Off the top of my head, I can't remember this epic feeling other than the time I read the Foundation trilogy. This is not for casual sci-fi readers, but by that I don't mean it's a mess of scientific jargon and tech speak. What I mean is that it relies heavily on principles and philosophy rather than action and adventure. For me, the best sci-fi books are those where the philosophy is at the forefront and the action is at the background. Just like Star Trek. This series is exactly that. Thoughts and philosophies occur that change the world and the universe and its profound and chilling at the same time. Read this series. It is a masterpiece.
第52条评论: I just finished the last book in Cixin's trilogy. I feel disembodied--consciouness traveling at the speed of light! What an amazing, imaginative accomplishment. I've been reading science fiction for 50 years: starting in the sixties with Asimov and Heinlein and Clarke  and Bradbury and then, after a break of several decades,  delighting in cyber-punk: Gibson, Sterling, and others. Later I read the steam punk of China Mieville and an eclectic group of other writers: Michael Bishop, Kim Stanley Robinson, C. J. Cherryh, Bujold, Stephen Baxter, Octavia Buutler, Samuel Delaney...Now Cixin. If only our presidents, popes, prime ministers,  kings, queens, senators, representatives, judges, religious leaders, dictators, and all world leaders had 1/10th of the wit and vision of the world's science fiction writers! Bravo Cixin! Bravo!
第53条评论: Liu Cixin really tackles a lot of heavy material with Death's End, starting approximately when The Dark Forest did in our near future and running billions of years into the future...jumping forward sporadically as the protagonist is awakened from hibernation to participate in or witness universe shaping events.Human nature, sociology, game theory, and dimensional physics all play a major role in shaping a narrative that delves far deeper into this possible future for the human race than the previous two novels in the trilogy. What's most surprising is just how deftly it's all woven together, and that is even more surprising when taking into consideration that it was translated into English while maintaining coherence and literary quality.While at times almost disorienting, this book was an absolutely necessary conclusion to the trilogy that began with The Three-Body Problem.
第54条评论: I wanted to buy the book.  I one-clicked the 3 book series and they gave me the digital edition that costs almost as much without any warning.  Now I'm trying to figure out how to cancel the darn thing.  I hate this!!!!!!!!!  People over 30 don't like to read stuff on little screens, knock it off!!!!!!!!!!!Update:  I did find a way to contact Amazon Customer support via chat and they were able to cancel the order.  I've heard great things about this book and look forward to the paperback versions arriving soon.
第55条评论: Death's End.  I'm glad I read it, as the third book of Cixin Liu's trilogy.  I know it must be hard to right sequels.  This was a valiant attempt.  It just never caught my interest like the first of the trilogy (5 stars), nor even the second (well, 4 stars).  It was a bit rambling, and just too way out there for me, beyond unbelievable and lacking continuity.  I only hope the future doesn't play out like this.  Still, if you've read the other two, I recommend reading this one, just to get closure and to see how far his mind can really stretch.
第56条评论: Thought it was a very interesting and disturbing picture of the galaxy and our future in it. Not at all like the mostly optimistic Star Trek type look at our future in the cosmos. Really enjoyed the trilogy. Writing that was more China centric due to the author's background/nationality was also a different look.
第57条评论: After reading The Dark Forest and seeing the reviews for this final book in the series, I thought this would be a better read.  The story drags and just keeps changing scenes.  Some argue that the books grand scope makes it great, but really I think it's the book's downfall.  Some readers liked the "surprise" ending.  Really, I thought the ending just got silly.  They travel light years to another star system and a guy is waiting for them on a planet.  What??  Overall a good series; not great.  And final book was disappointing.
第58条评论: This is a long book. It's a marathon. You need to take your time with, but in the end you will love it. What makes the marathon is not the number of pages but rather the shear scale of it all. The amount of complex philosophical angles, interpretations of the universe and technological ideas that are cramped into this trilogy is as mind bending as they are to grasp. Definitely on my list of favorites.
第59条评论: A fantastic author and a work always surprising in every chapter
第60条评论: I'm a hardcore sci-fi fan and this series, especially this finale, is without compare. I'm sitting here trying to think of anything to compare it to but there's really nothing. Everything you expect after reading the first books gets thrown out the window by the second, and it only continues into this one. There were few points in this series where I felt at all confident in any predictions I was making, and I was right to feel that way because I was almost always wrong. The deep physics in this series will please the more scientific readers, but this is a deeply human story. It's poignant and heart-wrenching and everything science fiction should be. I doubt I'll ever read anything that will impact me in the same way this series did.
第61条评论: This series of books is an interesting study in the imagination of Dixon Liu. No doubt these books will become classics. Everyone interested in Science Fiction should read them.You won't be disappointed.
第62条评论: What a journey. I've never encountered any story with a scope as big as this, that is as well told. This is cosmic horror and hard sci-fi with heart, suffused with a beautiful existential melancholy.
第63条评论: Liu follows the incredibly black interpretation of Fermi's Paradox that informed the previous two volumes to a logical end that is more bone-chilling than you can easily imagine, while raising difficult questions about ends and means in a hostile world, and the nature of a valuable individual or species life. While the discourse about gender in the book can be off-putting, I read Liu's discussion of "masculinity" and "femininity" as referring to human society's simplistic constructs of those ideas, not to biological essentialism (a reading that is strongly supported by his semi-related novel "Ball Lightning".Can be a challenging read: while I disagree with the criticism that Liu does not write character well, he writes character in a non-Western manner, and writes characters who are mostly scientists and talk like scientists). His characters are also much more comfortable with stopping for explicit discussion of philosophy than would be the norm in a Western novel.
第64条评论: A book that should be read by all science fiction lovers.  As the third book in the three body problem series, it's also my favorite. Highly imaginative but also very grounded at the same time, it highlights human's strengths and weaknesses and their ultimate love for home in a universe of other civilizations who may not share the same thoughts. Really illustrates how vast the universe is and how human civilization is just one tiny blip in the grand scheme.
第65条评论: Gazing up to the universe, and it looks a lot different henceforce.First, grats to those who fought all the way from the first two books to this one. Here you got what you expected and a lot of unexpected. The 3rd book is like a highly-condensed collection of fantastic sci-fi ideas and wonders. I felt losing my mind through the read, and am feeling even more amazed after a 2nd, 3rd and even the 4th read. This is something beyond, something instructive, and something crazily good for ppl who like to think more about the ultimate questions. If droplet (from the 2nd book) is a kind of weapon that blows your mind, then "weapons" in this book may completely change your way to read any other sci-fi books, especially those about space battles, and drag you into absolute desperation.This 3rd book deserves a Hugo, but I highly suspect it will win one since the 1st book already did. But to be honest, if the 3rd book is not worthy for the highest honor, what else is?
第66条评论: Cixin Liu.is brilliant. His storyline far exceeds what I would have expected. It's very unlikely that you will be able to guess trending of this trilogy. That made it a very enjoyable read.  Go for it.
第67条评论: The breadth and depth of this trilogy is beyond anything I’ve previously read in a long lifetime of extensive reading, or could even have imagined. It’s not always easy reading, but it’s always worth it and every time I think things have gone as far as they possibly can, they make yet another quantum leap. I love the science in this book. Some of the concepts were familiar to me; others less so. In either case, Cixin Lui's ability to draw out the potential applications of those concepts provoked whole new and broader ways of thinking about the universe for me. I’m sure I will read everything he writes from now on.
第68条评论: I feel like a child again, and am filled with awe and wonder. This is the best book in the series by far. The ideas are staggeringly, astronomically big, yet the heart of the story is hauntingly, intimately human. I like how not just the characters in the novel are well fleshed out personalities, but the civilisations also.Every now and then the prose explodes with bursts of alien poetry, unlike anything I've read from prose written by a native english speaker. The translator did an excellent job here.I felt deeply dissatisfied with the ending, but maybe that was the point. This is no fairy tale with a happy ending, but one that provokes, incites. I'll be thinking about this novel for a while yet. In a universe filled with intelligent species, what does it mean to be human? What is inviolable, other than the survival instinct? There are multi-layered, multi-dimensional metaphors here, some of them are explained explicitly by the writer, but it's clear this is a book worth a reread or two or three.
第69条评论: The simplest definition of the word “holy” is as follows: to be set apart. After rolling superlatives over in my head, I keep coming back to religious imagery. There’s an idea of the divine that because it is so powerful and unknowable, it becomes both frightening and fascinating. Terrifying and desirable.This series, and this book in particular, is just that. Some of the sequences and storylines are the stuff of nightmares, but the narrative is so powerful that it is almost irresistible. Rarely since I was young did a series capture my attention so fully.This isn’t for everyone, and I have yet to determine if I’m happy or saddened by the ending. But it is “Good” which is to simple a word, but without toeing to much further into pretentiousness, a simple and ancient word like good has all the meaning necessary
第70条评论: Beautiful book. A fitting conclusion to the trilogy; albeit dark. Reading the previous two aren't necessary; but for the proper feels, you should. The author has managed to put humanity, the whole species, as the protagonist in these stories. Also, the science involved blows up exponentially in these two compared to the previous stories. This book is more dramatic in nature; having multiple turning points which change the situation dramatically; as noted by the various eras.If you haven't read this series, but love science fiction or encounters with extra-terrestrial species, you should definitely try this. A very fleshed out description of what could happen if two civilisations know where the other lives. The first book was an introduction to the whole situation; but I strongly recommend reading the 2nd before starting this. The "Dark Forest" theory gives a startling dark nature to the universe; in contrast to the cheerful scenarios presented by classics like Star Wars or Star Trek.
第71条评论: The end to all good scifi. I can’t imagine another book series of the same genre will top this one anytime soon. Shout if from the rooftops, read these books!
第72条评论: The trilogy started good but by the third book the story became tedious and I had to force my self to finish it.
第73条评论: Reading this series was a wonderful way to spend some quarantine time during the Covid19 pandemic.  Completion of this three book series, from the Covid19 pandemic quarantine and the resultant release of the characters in this series points to a perfect trifecta reminding me that “It’s a Beautiful Day”!
第74条评论: This book was ridiculously good. Every book in this series just got better and better. Cixin tapped into my emotions over and over in this book.  I genuinely felt hope and despair, happiness and sadness, anger and peace. I'll sum up my summary by using a quote from the book that seemed to be a common theme: "Weakness and ignorance are not barriers to survival, but arrogance is.”
第75条评论: The author seems to be too much influenced by an American fashion in science, namely string theory. String theory is a paradigm known as not paying much attention to the experimental dimension of science and conceiving a plausible plot on such a paradigm without falling into pure fantasy realm reveals itself as a difficult or almost impossible task. This is why that whole third book of the series is almost devoted to the explanation of the author’s cosmology based on multiverse speculation and within that endeavour the novel is almost forgotten, making the characters uni-dimensional and leaving many unanswered questions. I suggest to the author to read “Fashion, Faith and Fantasy in the New Physics of the Universe” from Roger Penrose, in order to choose an adequate scientific background compatible with the limited world experiences of himself and of his readers, for his literary endeavour.
第76条评论: I’m a huge fan of Cixin Liu, as well as the first two books in the trilogy.  This one started out great as well, but when it got to the final chapter, it really fell apart for me.  Without wanting to spoil anything, I’ll just say that the book builds up one storyline through the entire thing...and then it never happens. In fact the story never really concludes.  I also didn’t like the fact that Sophon acts completely differently at the end, without explanation. All in all, a disappointing end to a magnificent series.
第77条评论: Reminiscent of classic works by Clarke and Asimov. Some very deep Tech stuff but this story moves in a direction never seen before. Excellent read.
第78条评论: Last night I finished reading "Death's End" by Cixin Liu. It was Book #3 of the "Three Body Problem" trilogy.I read a lot. A LOT. History, philosophy, SF.....books on religion.Death's End is probably the best book I have read in twenty years. Maybe the best ever. Of course, it needs to be read as part of the set of three, but even as a standalone treatise on life, Earth's future, reason, choices we make, evolution, technology.....not much compares.It will require another go-round once I've had time to digest properly my first imbibing of its profundity. Words escape me just how magnificent a book "Death's End" is.
第79条评论: Cannot say enough about this book.  The whole trilogy was absolutely amazing.  I believe this was my favorite of the three.  The span of time and characters are completely and totally breathtaking. I would say that these books are some of the best I've ever read. Sci-fi or otherwise.  I enjoyed so completely went back through and re-read all three a second time to get full effect.I read quite alot of all kinds of books and these are some of the only that I thought could've been longer. Wanted to read slow to savor.  So glad I found and hope others enjoy as much as myself.
第80条评论: So many concepts considered in sci-fi are living together in this tale of humanity, mathematics, and ideas as big as the universe and as powerful as the heart that drives sapient beings. Wow!
第81条评论: Book #3 in a trilogy that is getting better with every book. If that is not enough recommendation: This book humbles all SciFi I have read so far. I know only Isaac Asimov or Stanislav Lem capable of drawing such a complex picture you got sucked in completely - pun intended. I'll miss reading it aleady.
第82条评论: This is a great work of science fiction. The author has done a lot of research on quantum physics to write this book. His description of four-dimensional and two-dimensional universe's is mind boggling.  He handles relativistic principles very well. Once the Trisolarans breach the dark forest deterrence agreement, the action picks up and never stops again.No question Fix in Liu is one of the greatest science fiction writers of our time.
第83条评论: I have read a great deal of Science Fiction in my lifetime, from the great classic masters to the modern artists, but Cixin Liu is a gifted poet among SF greats.
第84条评论: I really enjoyed the first book of this series - very novel, very well written. The second book was ok - it grew on you over the course of the reading. The same seemed to be the case with book 3; however, it was marred by an incomprehensibly stupid heroine and then increasingly bombastic alien scenarios and perhaps one of the most dissatisfying, if not outright stupid, endings. Barely 3 stars (and that only on the strength of some of the innovative ideas and not the plot in general).
第85条评论: If you are a fan of sci-fi, or have a pulse, you will probably think this is one of the great books of your life. Do not make the mistake of waiting another minute to order Death's End...a lot can happen in that amount of time. :-)
第86条评论: This is one of the best series of science fiction I’ve read full stop. I think it was a terrific end to the trilogy. The style is reminiscent of Asimov or Clarke in the realistic portrayal of science and humanity but this does so with better characters that have fuller lives and personalities. I can not recommend this book highly enough.
第87条评论: I enjoyed this book. There are ideas that make you think and debate. There is a lots of ups and downs which made me a little tired cutting reading. But nevertheless I enjoyed this end of a trilogy.
第88条评论: This series was one of the best trilogies I have ever read. The twists were unseen, the science wasn't too outlandish and his human characters made human choices. It is a work of genius in both execution and translation. If you like science fiction, you must read this.
第89条评论: What can you say about a book that in the first page, NO SPOILERS, gives a timeline that stretches from the 1400's to 65,000,000,000 AD.  This is an amazing finish to an amazing trilogy.  I really feel sorry for all the whiners who couldn't get through the, admittedly, slow first half of book 1.  I cried at the end.  My only regret is that there is no more to read.
第90条评论: Cixin Liu is my new favourite science fiction writer. He blends brilliant speculation about the way the universe works with a human story.
第91条评论: Just read it!
第92条评论: The last of the Three Body Problem series.  Every book keeps you guessing.  The twists and turns are not anything I imagined. Perhaps because the author is Chinese and thinks on a different philosophical plane than Americans. Whatever the reason, the books are poetic while based in pure, deep science.  I loved them very much.  These books will be something I will read again in several years and savor them as much as I did the first time.Engrossing!
第93条评论: Thought provoking closure to the trilogy. Masterful narration and gripping story. First time reading the author and couldn’t put it down !
第94条评论: Next level sci fi here.Best part is that it's not magical science fiction. It's more or less all within the realm of theoretical physics. Also a great discourse in political science.
第95条评论: This is a beautiful and mind-bending end for the Tri-Solaris trilogy. So many amazing new elements thrown into the mix, so many concepts thrown in that seem mind-bending but somehow Liu is very adept at making them fairly coherent and comprehensible. I had to sit and contemplate what I had just read for a good 30 minutes or an hour after I closed the cover for the last time on this one.I don't believe in plot synopsis style reviews, so I'll spare any details and just say that overall this was an incredibly quick read with satisfying characters, genuinely intriguing turns of events.
第96条评论: As a huge scifi and fantasty buff, This might be the best sci-fi book and series that I've ever read.
第97条评论: Seriously impressed by this story. It's incredible how bleak things get at times purely due to convincing science (Of which there is plenty)  and I say convincing because I can't dispute it but from what I have fact checked seems legit.Some of the characters developed, ring true to the different aspects of humanity, in a very obvious yet profound sense. A particular favorite is wade who it seems represents the raw primitive ambitious nature of humanity.A satisfying way to end the series, and a must read series it has been!
第98条评论: Great end to a fantastic series. Like others before it, some parts are very detailed to the point of boredom, but often it’s those exact details that allow the story to continue on imaginative ways. Highly recommend the whole series!
第99条评论: This is the final book in the 3 Body Problem Trilogy.  I think the trilogy is one of the best works of science fiction I have ever read.  To me, the author has taken our current understanding about physics and extrapolated forward many interesting situations.  And he also is always thinking about how new technologies and discoveries result in political and societal upheavals.  And I really like how he gives us an answer to the Fermi Paradox in the Dark Forest.
第100条评论: I loved the first book in this series and the second one was ok too, but this book is awful. There is some imaginative scenery which is why it gets 2 stars, but people's behavior in this book doesn't make any sense and the premise of the book is that the feminization of men is the primary cause of problems in humanity's next stage of development.
第101条评论: This is not an action packed page turner.  However, this is the most creative and thought provoking novel (actually, the trilogy) I have read in a very long time.  Outstanding.
第102条评论: I got hooked on Liu Cixin's work from reading his short stories. This was a nice wrap up to the trilogy and I only wish we could have learned more about the Trisolarins.
第103条评论: Cixin Liu leaves the soul haunted with dispare but also splendour in his final epic installment to the three body problem.
第104条评论: This trilogy was an excellent read. Certainly one of my favourites. I consider this one of the classic must reads of all times in the sci-fi genre.
第105条评论: What a ride these three books have been.  It's hard to say if any particular one stood out more than the others, but this third installment in the series definitely, and literally, blew my mind.
第106条评论: Astounding. I was on the fence about reading a Chinese to English translation, not any more. I've plowed through this trilogy in no time. Will be looking for more translations from Cixin Liu in the future.
第107条评论: It's been a while since I've read sci-fi with this big wow factor. This book continues on where others have ended a long time ago.
第108条评论: This trilogy takes the reader on a journey almost beyond human comprehension.  It opens the door on new ideas and possibilities both fantastic and terrifying.
第109条评论: This novel is in instant classic, bursting with mind-blowing ideas that would each be a cracking story in its own right. Even better than "The Three-Body Problem", and a fitting end to a fine trilogy.
第110条评论: The most epic epic you could ever imagine, somehow kept lively and digestible despite having a higher number of ideas and characters per page than anything I've ever encountered. So glad I stumbled into this.
第111条评论: Most Sci fi books have one or two big concepts and use these to drive the plot. This trilogy creates an entire ethos of the universe based on a few ideas (I won’t spoil the first books for you) and then introduces blockbuster concepts at the rate 3-4 per book with entire chapters dedicated to exploring their logical results. Did I mention these are great stories of compassion and choice as well? Highly recommended.
第112条评论: This whole series has been amazing.  This book comes to such a great ending, it's hard to justify reading any more in the series.  It has been an amazing ride, and I am so greatful for the journey.
第113条评论: This is probably one of the sci-fi series with the greatest scope that spans space, time and dimensions, combines historical facts and anticipating how future outcomes are affected by social behaviors of human beings spanning generations. I am re-reading the entire series again to make sure that I did not miss anything and I am still enjoying every page of the series in my second round of reading.To me, this series is one big social analysis on human beings and how they will react when faced with a crisis that is almost impossible to avert.
第114条评论: Others have said enough - I found this to be just as good as the 2 previous books. There were times when I really couldn’t stop thinking about the implications of what I just read. The book is that good. 5 stars all the way!
第115条评论: I love how the story keeps shifting. With each shift the exploration of the impact on humanity is credible and fascinating.  The reasons for the jumps are completely unexpected and yet completely coherent and beautifully woven together.  At the same time, the scientific invention is just amazing.  Even the story within the story, a folk tale hiding a message, was fun to read. (And even more fun to decipher.)Although I loved the second book as well, I was a bit confused by many loose ends. This finale tied everything together expertly.
第116条评论: The third and last book redeemed the abrupt ending of the second one. I had approached it with some trepidation but was pleasantly surprised. So many great ideas packed into one book! Thoroughly enjoyed.Personally I'd like to see a bit more exposition on the life in a dark forest. There is so much "space opera potential" here but the author has chosen to present concepts rather than stories. Hopefully the author will revisit the Dark Forest and show us some more deadly cat and mouse games between different species.
第117条评论: Boring, aimless and self serving. There are not any engaging characters... Unless you count the ones you would scream at.
第118条评论: Not as good as the others in the series. The book is slow and somewhat boring, and the end feels rushed. It actually took me more than 2 months to finish it. The book probably deserves 3 stars in my view, but I gave it 4 considering the series as a whole.
第119条评论: Grand, sweeping and mind-blowing. This book is Science Fiction at its realistic best and is up there with those SF classics. The story is captivatingly complex with lots of unexpected twists and turns. It is a most creative, imaginative but serious read, involving Physics, Astronomy, Game Theory, Sociology, Psychology, etc. Readers interested in science will enjoy it the most. Wouldn't recommend it to any pure fantasy novel readers whose focus is on character development. Definitely not for feminists who can't stand any weakness in female characters.
第120条评论: This is volume three of the Three Body Epic and clearly the most imaginative of the narratives.  The author flexes the limits of your imagination about outer space and galactic dimensions and consequences if those dimensions collapse.  I am not an astrophysicist so I cannot attest to the verity of all the descriptions.  Nevertheless it is a worthwhile but difficult read.
第121条评论: I just finished this the third and last volume of this trilogy and am still dazed by the story as I write this. This entire series was an extraordinary tale of hard science fiction adventure the expanse of which I have not found since Stephen Baxter's The Time Ships (which I also highly recommend). In a nutshell (spoiler alert), this story goes from a simple first-contact, through to, and beyond, the complete destruction of the entire Solar System. In parallel with all this is a love story that spans centuries and light years (don't worry, it doesn't get mushy).The story was written by a Chinese author translated competently to English. Volume 2 was done by a different person and not quite as well done as the other two, but there are no major gaffes and minor ones are rare enough to not be a distraction. The only challenge is all the character names are in Chinese pinyin and I had a little difficulty keeping them sorted out (but later volumes include a list of the major players).Highly recommended.
第122条评论: Death's End is the tremendous last installment of this mind-blowing trilogy.  Every page gave me new respect for Liu's fertile imagination.  Wow, he is amazing.  Some people have a knack for storytelling. Liu could write one long continuous book that never ends, and I would read it.  That's how compelling his writing is.  Death's End reads like an acid trip that moves from hard science fiction to a new genre of fantasy that melds this dimension with other dimensions, all concocted inside, outside, next to, or in spite of, Liu's brain.See?  I can't talk clearly about this book.  The important thing is to start with The Three-Body Problem, then read The Dark Forest, and then settle in with Death's End.  Next year, when you come up for air, you can start again and discover new layers that you missed the first time.
第123条评论: I only gave this 4 stars instead of 5 because of the trilogy, I think this book was slightly weaker than the others. This book moreso than the others seemed to lack a consistent story line. More precisely, it jumps around a lot, and by the time you start getting invested in one story line, everything falls apart and it jumps forward to another. That sort of fits the way the story is being told, but it's definitely a different way of story telling. That said, once I re-aligned my mind to think of the book in a different tone than the other two, I found it beautifully told and intriguing to read. There are some beautifully crafted sections where he describes space in different dimensions. I also particularly liked the "fairy tales" that are told and the depiction of aliens casually blowing up planets. If you can get past the somewhat disjoint story telling, Deaths End promises wonderful, exciting, depressing and chilling sections throughout. A must read if you've read the first two.
第124条评论: The publisher is not Tor. Nor will the book displayed match the rest of the trilogy on a shelf. Petty but very irritating when it's sold as a buy it together set..
第125条评论: This book series has continued to impress me with  its amazingly unique perspective of our world, our universe and what the future may hold. If you enjoy sci fi, read all 3 books in the Three Body Problem series!
第126条评论: Wow....beautiful, mind blowing, awe inspiring, and heart breaking. My review could never do justice to the grand scale laid out in these books. This is the kind of story you finish and then need to sit down and process what you've just experienced. My one gripe was the ending was sudden and I wasn't expecting it to be over at that point but I can't complain too much. With all that the author has given us with this series I can forgive him for leaving a few things to the imagination. Also, it should be said that this is not a happy book. In fact, it might be the most melancholy work of science fiction I have ever read. Thinking about this story is like picking at a scab for me...I want to stop ruminating on it but at the same time I don't want to, or maybe I cant. My last word to anyone reading this review is: Pick up this series at your own risk. It will dominate your thoughts and most likely make every other work of science fiction you read seem trite and superficial.
第127条评论: The conclusion to the best science fiction trilogy I have read , which may seem like an over exaggeration but something I mean sincerely. It is at some points terrifying, frustrating, sad, but always thought provoking. The start seems unrelated but is an introduction to one of the most pivotal points in the story. After the joy of the conclusion of the 2nd novel (the dark forest) the update to Earth's struggles left me frustrated with human nature especially after finding out what happened to Luo Ji after the Dark forest. I also f found myself frustrated with and hating Cheng Xin though it probably wasn't the authors intention. Though Yun Tianming earns the title as "the greatest warrior in human history" , more realistically he is the most romantic person in human history. On some level this story is a romance as well as sci-fi, which you'll understand once you finish it. In conclusion an unparalleled story that left me with existential dread until the end where I was granted a glimpse of hope.
第128条评论: Compared to the first 2 books, which had a kind of realistic feel to them, analyzing potential impacts to human society in light of the forthcoming Trisolaran invasion, the author goes well into pure sci-fi mode here. Some of the concepts are very imaginative and though-provoking, and I was eager to read on for most of the time to see where the story was going. Also the author's grip on physics is very impressive. However, the end really loses it IMHO, it goes overboard in the same way as the Interstellar movie goes with the 4-dimensional room in the black hole (ok, just a subjective complaint ;-)). Also when the author describes some concrete situations things become involuntarily funny (like Sophon's ninja-style behaviour with swords and Kendo sticks, as well as the surrealistic depiction of Moskstraumen). Some critical editing would have helped the story a lot. Nevertheless I was greatly entertained for most of the time, and the main points of the story will remain with me for quite a while.
第129条评论: What Cixin Liu began as a personal story of one woman's tragic life crescendos to a climax that comprises all of space and time.  Images from some of the epic moments in this final installment keep coming back to my mind, unbidden and sometimes unwelcome - breathtaking for their portrayal of life and the cosmos, but heartbreaking and sometimes disturbing.  Despite space being the ultimate weapon and time being the cruelest force in the universe, every beautiful thing exists within them, including hope - even a hope as cold and distant as the cosmic background.
第130条评论: Great story.Written by an apologist for genocide.  Only the reader can reconcile those two facts.I want to add a comment about Amazon's review system.  IT STINKS!Amazon makes NO ATTEMPT to associate reviews with the actual product being reviewed.Fix your pathetic excuse for a review system.From now on, I will add that addendum to EVERY review I post.
第131条评论: Just started the series, but I'll be done before the movie comes out. Anyway I love epics.
第132条评论: I loved this book! It makes me think a lot, and is visionary in scope. It will make you think deeply about the topics it covers. And it is also just awesome hard sci-if reading!
第133条评论: Not really sure what to say other than I highly recommend this book to someone who has read the first two books. I found it very engaging and while I didn’t like the last couple parts I understand why the author went this way.
第134条评论: The science is well thought out, the plot is intelligent and unpredictable and the characters are well developed and believable
第135条评论: absolutely stupendous science fiction. It hard to find words to convey the cosmic scope,feats of imagination and impact of this trilogy.  It simply outclasses most other science fiction by huge astronomical units.  Unfortunately, all subsequent science fiction that I read will now be judged by this awesome work and found wanting!  I cant understand why it didn't win the Hugo.  I just didn't want it to end.
第136条评论: Third book in the trilogy; must read the prior two.  Great storyline and very well written (translated).  Not the happiest of endings...
第137条评论: The twists at the end are logical and expanded my awareness.  It was a fun read that took me a while, but was able reconnect with when I picked it back up
第138条评论: I picked up the first book in the series on a Kindle sale and soon bought the next two at full price. Liu is incredible and the translation of his work is a true masterpiece. I'm still processing the book and am grateful for the experience provider by author, translator, and their support teams as well
第139条评论: It was literally "Death's End" to force myself to finish this overly long trilogy.  While the clever inventiveness of the science fiction was very high, the plot and especially the cold lack of any human warmth made it hard for this reader to relate to the characters by this last installment.  Sometimes "less is more" and this last book is an example.  It would have benefited by exploring the humanity and emotions of the two main characters.  But, that could have been more easily done in the second, "Dark Forest," volume.
第140条评论: The third and final book of the Three Body Problem series. I enjoyed it quite a bit, and it was a fitting end to the series. These books have been very different from the science fiction I'm used to reading, and I'm excited to read Ken Liu's upcoming collection of Chinese sci-fi, Invisible Planets.
第141条评论: This series (and this book in particular) may be the greatest piece of science fiction there is. Cixin Liu's imagination is a once in a lifetime gift. I will never see the world (or the universe) the same after finishing this series. Death's End is by far the most amazing book in the series with its depth, scope, and wild journey through time and the cosmos. You have to read the first two books before getting to this one, though. I can't stress how real everything about this book feels as if the concepts expressed in this book might actually be the true state of the universe. I am not a scientist, but I appreciated how convincing Liu makes the scientific elements in this book seem. I even looked up some concepts after reading and discovered that some of his ideas are not far off from what we actually know about the fundamental laws of physics today. As an artist and law student (i.e., an incredibly nerdy person who reads and thinks a lot) this book was like heaven. Incredibly stimulating, thought-provoking, daring, heartbreaking....words don't do it justice.  Reading this book is a very humbling experience. It leaves you completely awestruck. Do yourself a favor and go on this journey. You will never be the same again.
第142条评论: will download the first and second series to save $
第143条评论: This book is the final of three books that are an absolute marvel for average man's imagination. Yes it is science fiction but the science in this author's imagination is mind boggling. Cixin Liu is a Chinese engineer of no great acclaim other than the fact that he has visions and thoughts which he records and then transforms into these amaxing stories. He explores phenomena far beyond what conventional scientists or intellectuals see as the future of humankind and space exploration. Very forward thinking about wide ranging scientific discoveries, cultural advancements and the great unknowns of outer space. The characters are not deeply explored because it is the stories that count here. And they are amazing!As an avid reader I can honestly say that this trilogy "The Three Body Problem" are the best books I have ever read. You get addicted and cannot put them down. Highest of recommends.
第144条评论: I think Liu's strength is his fantastic scientific imagination and it's showcased the most in this last book of the trilogy. I didn't particularly like the first book but I pushed through, liked the second one more and feel rewarded by the third. His characters are somewhat flat and their relationships are not naturally realistic. The subtext of his social commentary comes through as conservative Chinese. Although he attempts to temper it, his philosophy is fundamentally cynical. Yet, I found myself completely absorbed in the sci-fi-physics elements he imagines.
第145条评论: Finished all 3 books as audiobooks.  This series was recommended by many as well thought out hard sci-fi.  It is especially different that it is from a Chinese perspective and without too many spoilers,  America does not save the day in this one.  I consume vast quantities of military/action sci-fi so I tried this out.  Do not expect a lot of shoot-um-up’s or extensive space battles.  What I did enjoy is the concept that humans are just a small speck in this grand universe.  This is one of those series I’m glad I finished, but would not reread.
第146条评论: I really admire Cixin Liu's imagination. He plays with laws of nature that we've established to be absolute and manages to give tangibility to yet unobserved physical phenomena in a believable way. "Cosmic sociology", which has been the focus of the series (especially in the last two books), is completely different from how I used to imagine a densely populated universe, and I'd say it gave me a new (more realistic) perspective. I also liked how philosophical the book gets sometimes. I think if you engage with it, you'll be rewarded with a better understanding of humanity. I'm giving it 4 stars because there were certain plot choices that came close to shattering my suspension of disbelief.I'd say this book is about as good as The Dark Forest (maybe a little worse) but The Three Body Problem remains the best in the series. If you hated the second book or if you REALLY liked the ending, then maybe it's not worth reading this book. But if you liked it but still want to know what happens next, then go ahead and read this one.
第147条评论: The concepts and scientific theories in this series of books is really amazing, but that's where the good news stops. These books are almost impossible to get through. The author goes on, and on, and ON, about the most basic plot points. The descriptions of even basic things are drawn out over dozens of pages. Each of the three books could easily be cut down by 150+ pages. At a couple of points I just skipped chapters and I was able to pick right back up due to the slow and plodding writing. Unless you are a patient reader AND an intense sci-fi reader, I would skip the whole series. I got sucked in by the reviews including the endorsement by President Obama, and that was a mistake. When the TV series gets made, watch that. It will be one of the rare times when the movie is better than the book, trust me. Thumbs down.
第148条评论: It's impossible to rate this book on it's own since it's part of a stunning trilogy, and the quality of this book only really shines in the context of the whole. Cixin gets very technical in parts, and descriptions of physics can go on, and on. For that reason, I am glad that I had an audiobook for this one. I'm an academic, and already do a lot of reading, and some sections would start to feel more like work than relaxation. Still, I might have drifted off a little here and there during the most intense technical descriptions, but still paid enough attention to learn a bit about the speed of light, black holes and different dimensions.I also put the series down in the middle of the second book when I realized that there was not a single female character left that was a significant part of the narrative. But, I came back to it eventually, and I'm so glad I did. As it turns out, the 3rd book is largely from a feminine point of view, and thinking back, I'm pretty sure that Cixin was intentionally emphasizing a masculine point of view in the second book.Otherwise, the incredible scope of this book and the sheer audacity of even trying to tell this the story Cixin tells is breathtaking. It even has the quality of a fairy tale, but not a modern Disney version, more like the old dark folk tales of the past. Cixin waxes and wanes from optimism and despair, destruction and renewal and yin and yang throughout. As with life, there is no fairy tale ending, the story just ends when it ends.I'm going to be thinking about this story for many years to come.
第149条评论: Death's End is the final book in the "Remembrance of Earth's Past" trilogy, which started with The Three Body Problem and continued in The Dark Forest.  Death's End quite simply is an amazing book, with bold ideas that become almost poetic at times.  It is an excellent conclusion to an excellent series.Presumably, if you're reading this review, you've already read the first two books in the series.  If not, please start with the earlier books as the story within will not make much sense.Without giving anything away....this book follows one female scientist through a series of stories initially paralleling the stories in the first two books and subsequently going beyond them.  She plays a key role in how Earth deals with the threat posed by the Trisolarians as well as the threat of the "Dark Forest" concept.  As a character, she is complex. At times, she is weak and annoying, and at other times, she is consumed with guilt, and at still other times, she is innovative and intelligent.  Undoubtedly, some reviewers will focus on her flaws as a reason to dislike the book, but more discerning readers will understand that the flaws reflect not only her complexity but also the social makeup of the time in which she is living.Liu's science fiction is not simply hard-core science with a fictional setting; it's also speculation on the evolution of society as a whole.  It's well worth reading, as the book will leave you pondering the concepts and ideas long after you've exited your eBook reader or closed the book.  It's one of the best books of 2016.
第150条评论: This 3-book series is not for the first-time sci-fi reader, as it's both clunky and technical.  It is, however, very much for any sci-fi reader looking for something different; and for that sort of reader, it's marvelous.  On the down side, the prose is often awkward and stilted (some but not all of which may be an artifact of the translation into English), the rhythm and pacing are halting and sometimes jarring, the characters are sometimes thin, and the author's normally rigorous scientific speculation sometimes veers into the absurd.But here is an author with big ideas, who doles out his jewels unhurriedly, and with a cadence that is hard to predict.  The reader often has a sense of where things are headed, only to have expectations jumbled and violated on the very next page.  All of which lends to a narrative that sometimes feels slow, and at others races breathlessly along, and the shifts in gear are almost always unexpected.  Even the tone of the book lurches between the dewey optimism of much traditional sci-fi, and a pessimism almost too bitter to swallow.  And much of the first book is barely even science fiction, though that changes dramatically as the series progresses.One of the most interesting aspects of the series (though there are many) is the thoroughly non-Western perspective, in its understanding of both personal and political relationships.  I won't say more about that; best to experience it directly.  This is a weird, awkward, wonderful series that will change the way you think about our place in the cosmos.
第151条评论: An interesting end to a good trilogy, somewhat a bleak outlook on human nature and the nature of the universe, it does well to impart a sense of scale immersion into the world, and conveys the emotion of such realities effortlessly.
第152条评论: Mind-boggling conclusion to the fantastically written triology. This is a book that will keep you on you toes and make you search for every minute to keep reading. I've read a lot of sci-fi novels but have never ever been this engrossed, not even when I was reading Asimov years back.
第153条评论: Takes place over centuries and I feel like it took a few to read! Still feels like 500 pages were edited out. Lots of twists. Translator of first and third book were excellent. A bit long and maybe a bit overly poetic to keep pacing moving along.
第154条评论: Earth, Trisolaris, time and space. All arcs get proper closures. And more doors get open for us to glimpse not at science or fiction but at what we are and what the future lays ahead of us.
第155条评论: While I did enjoy this book, I felt the first two were much better. Alone without the premise of the previous books, this book would have scored very badly.
第156条评论: Wow...what an amazing trilogy. The Ender's Game series have been my favorite sci-fi books for 15+ years but I think it's finally met its match! My only comment is that this trilogy does get pretty technical with lots of physics and astrophysics jargon but it's not overwhelming.
第157条评论: It’s all in the title. One of the rare series that only gets better with each new book. The last one is my favorite of the series.
第158条评论: Read this book!  It is truly phenomenal and worth so much more than a paltry 5 stars.  Thank you, Mr. Liu, for a mesmerizing journey through space.
第159条评论: An amazing epic that yet again illuminates the fragility of the societies we create across our different cultures. Bookend withThomas Hobbes, because space exploration is most definitely conducted in the 'state of nature' where arrogance is quickly met with death.
第160条评论: This book is of the same quality as the first 2. A very fun read!!
第161条评论: I like to think of Cixin Liu as a contemporary chinese Asimov. He managed to create a story where the main characters are humanity and at the same time, a rocket engineer. You can connect with all kinds of emotions, both as an individual that can relate to what happens to her, and also as an insignificant member of the human race, looking for a way out of the dark forest.
第162条评论: The third book in the trilogy, this does an excellent job of wrapping up a very interesting storyline.  My favorite book of the three although I feel allmust be read in order to appreciate the author's depth of thought.  I found this interesting as well due to its roots in another culture not European.
第163条评论: I was very interesting to read SciFi from a Chinese perspective. American writers rarely acknowledge that anyone exists outside the US. Tho I found some of it implausable (it's scifi afterall)  I recommend this trilogy for those who like the genre.
第164条评论: I have to say the science in it is not very precise about the quantum entanglement and many other concepts (I'm a physics PhD). However, the story is fictional but "makes sense" which I appreciate the most. The great ideas in the book are not limited in science but society and psychology and some deep thinking into morality. Definitely worth reading for multiple times
第165条评论: Cixin Liu continues to amaze with creativity.  The end seemed a little contrived, built a little too much just for getting to the multiverse theory, but overall still a very entertaining read..
第166条评论: The trilogy is definitely worth the read! I felt the characters were a bit flat, but the immensity of the story and the concepts presented more than make up for it. I highly recommend it!
第167条评论: This is one of the best sci-fi books I have ever read. Each book in this trilogy is better than its predecessor and this last book is truly a masterpiece of science fiction that will be remembered for years to come.The ideas are thought provoking - it is apparent that Mr. Liu invested a lot of effort to write a story that makes sense from a scientific perspective.
第168条评论: This book really makes me think the human civilizations in the grand scheme of the universe. I think this book paints a depressing one. All these struggles and conflicts, for what? The book’s ending doesn’t help and it’s a bit dull and feels more like a magician-pull-a-bunny-out-the-hat thing.
第169条评论: My mom gave me the first book (The Three Body Problem) to me as a gift and I loved it so much that I ordered the other two in the series. The third book is truly unique and though-provoking, that it makes me wonder whether the author Cixin Liu himself is an alien from an advanced civilization.
第170条评论: Each book in the series is better and grander in scope than the ones before.  It presents an original solution to the Fermi Paradox, as well as presenting quite wondrous extrapolations about the universe. The author carefully applies game theory to the interaction between civilizations, as well as pointing at the weakest parts of human nature without omitting the heroic in the handful capable of deciding the fate of mankind.
第171条评论: If there were six stars I would give it six stars. Some of the concepts in the book were just unique. The book gave me a new perspective on time and space. It was really great.
第172条评论: The three body problem trilogy gave me new perspectives on how contact with another civilization might turn out. Insightful and managed to surprise me several times. I strongly recommend the trilogy to all science fiction fans.
第173条评论: Follows the first book's vein of creativity and pushes the envelope of speculative fiction. Covers a wide range of theoretical physics in a popular way. So glad Ken Liu was brought back in for this book.
第174条评论: Great wrap up to a great book. Seems like the door is open for another book.
第175条评论: Like nothing I've read. Unbelievably imaginative. Liu explores concepts in this trilogy that are new to sci-fi and I hope they'll be explored further.
第176条评论: Wow! I can't even describe the twists and turns and HUGE scope this book brings to the world. This is a magnificent science fiction book and in my top 25 ever read. I can't recommend enough!
第177条评论: While there are a lot of interesting scientific ideas introduced into the plot, this book and its companions in the trilogy are as much an exploration of sociology as they are hard science.
第178条评论: Wonderful trilogy that gets better with each book. Not since Tao Zero has my mind been in such awe by a sci-fi story.
第179条评论: Amazing. Endlessly fascinating.
第180条评论: Just wonderful. This is the last book of the "Three Body Problem" trilogy. Quite imaginative. Its very hard to create plausible fiction spanning thousands of years. Cixin Liu successfully spans millions of years.
第181条评论: Highlight of the trilogy, gets bigger and better with each chapter with simply astonishing ideas. Cannot recommend the entire trilogy more highly.
第182条评论: Amazon posted this item and it got lost ,they posted again and I finally received it, it's a present for my partner, he loves it
第183条评论: The reader should assume nothing about what will transpire next in this long and creative plotline.  Theoretical physics, indeed! Delicious. 好吃的！
第184条评论: I loved this book. The whole series has my highest recommendation.
第185条评论: epic in scale; vividly interesting; completely different story premise from anything i've read before; poignant and yet a beautiful piece of work.
第186条评论: Sci Fi at it's best, fantastic trilogy.  All three books gave me some very interesting things to think about during and after reading.
第187条评论: One of the strangest and most beautiful books I've ever read. Highly recommended for everyone who likes to read sci-fi.
第188条评论: It really doesn't get much greater in scale than this. I couldn't stop reading and being utterly absorbed in all the minute details and mysteries of this genius work.
第189条评论: Great narration. The book seemed like it could have ended three times, but was ultimately very satisfying.
第190条评论: Mind-blowing sci-fi book that also teaches you about Chinese history...what's not to love?
第191条评论: the peak masterpiece of known history, the Bible for humans in universe eraDefinitely to win Hugo price for this year
第192条评论: Great end to a terrific series
第193条评论: Take humanity into the galactical level
第194条评论: Strong finale to an astonishing trilogy, tracing a sweeping arc into the deep (and increasingly bleak) cosmic future.  Bravo, Da Liu.
第195条评论: One of the best sci-fi books I have read.  Really epic  in scope without a lot of the scifi cliches.
第196条评论: This is the best sci-fi series that I’ve read.
第197条评论: Inexplicably rich, detailed and fascinating. The 10th dimension of science fiction writing. Each successive book out does the other. Superb.
第198条评论: I found this more engaging than the Dark Forest in terms of characters. I cared more about them than previous novels.
第199条评论: Deserves all his science awards; best trilogy ever; each builds on previous. Complex & phenomenal. Many thanks to translator Ken Liu.
第200条评论: This book was more like a history book that occasionally sprinkled in useless characters. About a quarter of the way though I switched to skimming and it was still too long. Really not worth reading I think. Another review made a reference to the Way of Tea scene as the perfect metaphor for this book and I agree.
第201条评论: If you like hard science fiction , this will not disappoint. The best science fiction since Arthur Clarke and Carl Sagan.The concepts are mind opening and at the same time ,  the consequences terrifying.
第202条评论: Very good novel. Enjoyed reading it and liked how it tackled science I dont usually see discussed in sci-fi novels
第203条评论: Lots of twists and changes to plot, but gets a bit convoluted towards the end,as if trying too hard to fill the gaps.
第204条评论: Eventually I'll write a proper review. But please read this. It's akin to cracking open your mind and filling it with a different view on the universe.
第205条评论: I couldn't put this book down at all! Very scientifically dense with plenty of twists and turns to make it extremely enjoyable. I haven't had such fun since first reading the Dune series decades ago, a must read!!
第206条评论: Awesome conclusion to a great trilogy. Might be my favorite of the three books. The whole thing really made me think in different ways about our universe, intelligent life, and the human species role in it all.
第207条评论: This is a series with big ideas in science fiction, and you will not be disappointed with this conclusion to the series.  I wasn't.In the spirit of good books, I'm not going to say a damn thing more about it.
第208条评论: Extensive suspension of disbelief. On the other hand, it is hard to imagine the future given the speed of technology.
第209条评论: Enjoyed all three books in this amazing series.
第210条评论: Complex, imaginative, ambitious. This guy is a great writer who created a series of books addressing things we should be thinking about now. He avoids sentimentality. Great characters. I hope he writes more novels I will rush to read them.
第211条评论: Just give it the Hugo and Nebula awards
第212条评论: Beautiful!
第213条评论: A complex and thoughtful ending to an amazing serie.
第214条评论: Hated to see it end.
第215条评论: Loved the first two books, but I struggled with this one. I suppose if you were a physicist this would have been right up your alley, but I found it esoteric in the extreme.
第216条评论: Epic journey through time and space
第217条评论: Best series I have ever read.
第218条评论: A+
第219条评论: A classic  in my top 5 all time
第220条评论: To dense and focused on trivial & unrelated minor items that had nothing to do with the story. Felt like things were being stretched to fill another book
第221条评论: Before I read this, my wife said: if you read the first two, maybe you don't need to read the third. I did have good reason to, but probably most people wouldn't; the three stars are for them.  Western English teachers mostly imagine too many hidden levels in books they discuss, but here Liu makes it very clear that he is into multiple hidden layers, and I didn't see his full picture and beyond until the morning after. While reading it, I was a bit depressed myself, and my paperwhite reader even started behaving very strangely. A simple cynic might say: "Liu's main theme is that women always screw up badly when they have any degree of decision power at all... and that even here on earth we are inexorably being flattened out into a nonsustainable existence for which there is essentially no hope." But there is a big gap between the subjective level of the author's position and the objective level. Objectively, he depends both on superstring theory and an implicit belief that the evolutionary pressures in the larger universe must be much more hostile than those on earth. Superstring theory is popular among intellectuals today, just as expert systems dominated AI a few decades ago and epicycles before that -- but there was more empirical evidence for epicycles than there is now for superstrings; the author tries to be ultra-yang in his objective analysis, but a true ultra-yang would understand probabilities and be less dependent on the social fad of the day. Logically, why should life for a baby species in the galaxy be more hostile than it was for a baby human in the days before  modern civilization? (Not that survival is guaranteed.) As we look at nature, we see a great diversity of ecological niches (equivalently, means of production), and a great diversity in levels and types of social interaction, and it is 'way too early to assume the worst, either in the galaxy or in the choices we make for ourselves here on earth. The fairy tale part of the novel, more subjective, is mostly more optimistic, but ... at the deepest hidden level... he seems to be grasping a bit towards things in another classic fairy tale novel, Voyage to Arcturus by Lindsay, which talks about a level which is anything but storyless; that novel actually points towards new physics just now emerging which goes 'way beyond superstring theory. For myself, I actually felt MORE optimistic the day after reading this.
第222条评论: simply masterpiece. can't say more. I'm giving it 5 starts not just because I'm Chinese. I read it in Chinese like 3 or 4 years ago. But during the years I went through it again and again and there are still so many mysteries inside it. I really wanna see it in movies. I expect like 10 or more movies about it.surely, I don't like the bitch lead Chen. I guess Big Liu want to express some characters in her. I believe it's a flaw here. But as a sci fic, it's really amazing. I actually wonder whether some part of it is really true. I guess the world is so cruel and cold, and probably after a long time, some dark part of the universe will eventually show like it says. I feel depressed and I guess calling it new bible is not nonsense.Hope you enjoy it. Besides as a sci fic, it actually reflects some part of our great Chinese history and culture, which are lost for a long time. And as a human being, I hope we can eventually find the meaning of life and universe, and become a better life species. I may not see that day come, but I hope it will come and we should not just end like in the story which only leaves a paint for others to discover.Best.
第223条评论: I read 100+ books per year, so I don't suffer even mediocre books before I call them quits. Also, I am not a particularly big fan of the science fiction genre. I read these three books after coming across so many recommendations for the series. The Three-Body Problem Series is OUTSTANDING! Each book in the series is better than its predecessor.
第224条评论: I almost cried at the end. The helpless and loneliness of humanity in space and other worlds other than earth. The scale of the story is unimaginable before reading this book. There are so many ideas that seem incredible becomes within reach after reading the book. Light speed travel sounds fascinating enough, but if you ponders the consequence of it, it is totally possible that you can see the end of the universe with it. The implications of the many advanced scientific concepts can be so thrill that you almost forgot you are reading fictions. The only thing comparable in recent memory is the movie Interstellar, in which they showed the time dilation near a black hole. The impact can be so profound but REAL. The destruction of civilization is only a means of survival and it is nothing personal. This makes me chill to the bone. Hopefully the universe is not as dark as it describes and there are other alternative explanation for the Fermi's paradox.
第225条评论: Great read. Very epic storytelling, but retains decent characterization nonetheless. A little hard to keep up with the Chinese character names, but that isn't uncommon for a translated book.
第226条评论: Very thoughtful scifi novel. The Chinese author's perspective of government and human interaction reflects a fundamental difference with traditional Western thought. The trilogy is a must read Scifi classic.
第227条评论: It's pretty good, I gave it 4 stars, because I don't like endings such as this. (I have read other scifi/fantasy novels that ended in a similar grand manner)
第228条评论: Fascinating but less readable than the predecessors . The most epic thing I have ever read or ever expect to read.
第229条评论: Liu Cixin starts this trilogy in China during the Cultural Revolution -- the locations are specific, the details precise. He ends it, some 18 billion years later, with the contraction of the universe back into a singularity.His goal, it appears, was to tell the story of humanity once it got beyond its parochial concerns and found itself in the wide, wide universe. Liu, however, is not an optimist, and he views the universe as a "dark forest," where the smallest fire draws predators, and superior civilizations view emerging civilizations as potential threats, not potential partners.Much of the trilogy is devoted to the conflict between the Trisolarians, another species, and humanity, but like so much in Remembrance of Earth's Past (as the trilogy is titled), there is no satisfactory conclusion. Liu just seemed to lose interest in the project and suddenly, the war was over.And speaking of lack of interest, Cheng Xin, the protagonist of "Death's End," is pretty much a cardboard cutout who spends much of the book hoping to die but staying alive to do her "duty." Her attitude of depression and defeatism reflects Liu's, and makes it hard to generate much interest in what happens in this long book.Then again, it's long because Liu is trying for something grand, a story that spans the life and death of the universe, and though he skips over many billions of years along the way, he must be given some credit for the attempt. It's unfortunate his execution did not live up to his ambition, however, and the result is a deflating conclusion to a series that began so promisingly with "The Three-Body Problem."
第230条评论: The final third of the Three Body Problem trilogy, Death's End does not disappoint.  I have tried to generally describe the other two novels but I am going to remain very vague.  This novel is astounding, and a flawless finish to the series.  I wish it could go on forever but of all the multi-novel series I have read, the Three Body trilogy is the best developed and most thorough story in three parts that I have read.  I was not left  with questions unanswered, issues untouched, and ideas half-formed and left to linger.  I was left with numerous questions of my own, philosophical questions, and pondering life itself and my place in the universe, but Cixin Liu did not leave me hanging on anything.  This series really brought me out of a funk with sci-fi after finishing some other great series and hitting a slump.  Cixin Liu is incredible, and I will be reading anything and everything he writes for a long time to come.
第231条评论: Great book!
第232条评论: Another great book in the trilogy. Well worth the time spent on it.
第233条评论: Outstanding continuation and finale to an outstanding hard science fiction series!
第234条评论: Maybe not the best of the trilogy, but the coolest.
第235条评论: First space battle scene that's not a bigger version of the 15th century battleship combat cliche.
第236条评论: Not only one of the best sci-fi series I've ever read, one of the best series!
第237条评论: A fitting "end" to an enjoyable trilogy. Sometimes too technical BUT I was never "lost" for long.
第238条评论: Warning spoiler.An atheistic nightmare, absolutely nothing happens in the billions of years that this novel encompass. Only strange impossible physical events one after the other, and then everybody dies.
第239条评论: The first 2 books in the series were amazing and mindblowing, so the final book had a lot to live up to.  Unfortunately it was plodding, and the storyline changed frequently.  Had high hopes for this book, but was utterly disappointed with it.
第240条评论: I read (listened to the audio version) this entire series three times, which I cannot say about any other book. Each time I found things I completely missed the previous time.  This series is not for everyone, but it's definitely for me.  This is a chaotic era!!
第241条评论: I was hooked after the first book; enthralled after the second; and enamored during the third. Now what do I do?
第242条评论: The best one in the trilogy! This series are definitely among those great works that have the magic power changing my views to the universe or reality, what ever you call it... Can't recommend enough!
第243条评论: My only complaint is that it makes most other sci fi I've read seem silly...and not sure what to read next that will challenge my thoughts about our species on a par with this trilogy.
第244条评论: One of my favorite science fiction experiences I've read. Entertaining and thought provoking throughout the series. I dog eared quite a few pages with really Mind opening speculative science passages. Very very good read
第245条评论: Exceptional feat, denser, deeper and on a way grander scale than the previous two books in the series (also two masterpieces). Recommended to all, it will change the way you look at the universe
第246条评论: Some right nice sci-fi. Makes you reevaluate your perspective in the space time continuum, and appreciate the tireless speculative capacities of the author.
第247条评论: The entire series is one of the best I've read...  Liu's thoughts and story line transcend convention and resides among the best of what sci-fi has to offer.  Simply epic.
第248条评论: If you’re on the edge about reading this series, just do it. You’ll be happy you did.
第249条评论: Too expensive for being a well-used copy.
第250条评论: This book leaves me thrilled for an entire week after finishing it...
第251条评论: Honestly so sad to see this series end. Great read!
第252条评论: A fitting end to The Three Body Problem trilogy!!
第253条评论: Out of the box ideas with a fair conclusion.
第254条评论: One of the best science fiction stories I've ever read.
第255条评论: I have to give this at least four stars because it was such a remarkable journey. (I read the book -- I did not listen to the audio book, but I can't find the Amazon page about the book. Anyway ...) I enjoyed the first book in the series, THE THREE BODY PROBLEM, very much. The second book, THE DARK FOREST, was one of my favorite books ever. The depth of imagination combined with the masterful coherence of the whole story was just incredible. As for DEATH'S END ... my experience was that the first 350 pages or so exceeded anything I could have even imagined, for sheer brilliance and originality. And the story was so incredibly compelling and unlike the first two books, it was even much more character driven, even while the ideas were wilder than ever. I was going around saying to people that DEATH'S END might be the best book I ever read.BUT ... well, I don't see anyone else saying this, but I was stunned at how disappointed I became during the last 250 or so pages of the book. I found it deeply unsatisfying on an emotional level, and also just on a story level. It became less credible to me, for one thing. Even within the context of a very far-out vision, it didn't feel entirely self-consistent (though I won't go into detail about right now ... is there a forum or something?) In broad strokes, I'll say this. I feel the book and its story went "cold." It retained much of its technical brilliance but the humanity of the story just totally dried up. It took a disappointing, dissatisfying direction and the resolution didn't "work" for me at all. I am so curious why no one seems to have felt precisely as I felt about that.
第256条评论: A masterpiece
第257条评论: Phenomenal.  Great ideas presented in a unique way.
第258条评论: Magnificent achievement.
第259条评论: Loved it!
第260条评论: Interesting trilogy from Cixin Liu.
第261条评论: Brimming with ideas that most sci fi writers would be happy to have just one or two of.  So-so plot, and Liu invokes deux ex machina plot devices at two key moments (one of which you could see coming well beforehand).  But for sheer creativity, breadth, and scope Death's End merits 4 stars.
第262条评论: This has been an incredible adventure, with many twists and turns. It is unique, in part because I did not have such a bond with the characters as I did with the ideas. It was the concepts that really stand out in the series, and my mind has been blown over and over again. I will be thinking about this book for a long time…
第263条评论: This book is one of the best space / scifi / first contact books I've read. They ideas about future technologies, encounters with alien races, and the reason for the Fermi Paradox are outstanding. You will have no idea where this book is going. Plenty of interesting ideas with physics, space travel, and the speed of light. Read this if you love great space operas with excellent futuristic science as the backbone of the plot.
第264条评论: The scope of the final novel is absolutely breathtaking. Truly a masterpiece of modern SF. Strongly recommended.
第265条评论: I loved the science in this book. Many ambitious ideas were explored in this ending to a fascinating trilogy. But the lead character, Cheng Xin, was worse than a disappointment. She had no strength of character and no honor. She was appallingly weak, never evidenced intelligence above average, and frankly slept (hibernated) through most of the history of the story; occasionally being awakened to make terrible decisions that would affect all of humanity, for which she wasn't in the least qualified. After a while I found myself saying, "For pity's sake, don't wake up that sentimental fool again!" I couldn't begin to imagine why any of the other characters would listen to a thing she said or thought. Every decision she made was usually precipitated by her seeing a baby or a child. And she was constantly willing to sacrifice every person, including every child on earth, for some candy coated vision of an imaginary one. Ruined the whole book for me.
第266条评论: This is the third book in the Three-body trilogy.  Cixin's imagination and his ability to explain physics and cosmology to the utterly uneducated is spell-binding.  The translator must be as good as his craft as Cixin is at his, because the book reads naturally and smoothly.  I am as far from a sci-fi fan as you can get, but this trilogy is worth every hour you invest in it.
第267条评论: Some of the best Sci Fi I've read. I haven't read fiction in years but I couldn't resist this trilogy. So glad I read it, very mind bending and original
第268条评论: I’m not one to gush, and as a Sf writer myself I am a tough critic, and Cixin Liu is in the company of historical greats. Amazing at every step.
第269条评论: “Tradutore traditori”  The translator is a traitor. When you call Cixin Liu The Isaac Asimov of China, you project cultural imperialism. But when you call  Isaac Asimov the Cixin Liu of American Science Fiction, you situate properly One genius along another. Asimov’s The Foundation Series come to mind Both represent the unbreakable bond between literature and science. Cixin Liu reveals the literature of science.
第270条评论: Incredibly ambitious series ends with a bang! Highly recommend.
第271条评论: How do you finish a trilogy like this? Apparently with a sweeping, sometimes chaotic space opera full of interesting physics. I found the central character incredibly challenging from beginning to end, and wanted to hurl my kindle at the ground every time (and it was a lot) that she was brought to face a challenge and failed dismally at it. She failed so often and so horribly that whenever she did anything useful or clever it felt forced and out of character. Still, the path of her moping, failure-filled destiny turns out to be a glorious ride, through no efforts of her own. I couldn't put it down and was both baffled and sad when it was over. As with all the other English translations of this series, the translators notes at the end are great reading in their own right.
第272条评论: A very fitting conclusion to the three body problem  trilogy. Like a lot of the reviewers I  feel this one is the best of the three. (That is not to say the first two are bad, far from it).  The author addresses a great many issues in this book, probably goes into more "science" in the science fiction aspect than the previous two.  He also shows the results -- both good and bad-- of decisions made by the lead characters.  There are no simple answers and what I liked most about the novel is that the author makes you think.  While I think it is certainly possible to jump into the series and only read this book, I feel the reader will gain more from reading the three body trilogy in order.  A wonderful read and well worth the time invested in the book,
第273条评论: Obama was right, it was wildly imaginative and I can see why it’s one of Elon Musk’s favorite series.  I’m sure the ideas and concepts will be “borrowed” by other Sci-fi writers.  I wasn’t wholly satisfied with how he tied everything off, but it was a good read.  I doubt I’ll read it again though.  Didn’t crack my top 10.
第274条评论: Worse than the second book, but still in that (admittedly wide) 4 star range.It continued to tell interesting and well thought out mix of science and guess work fiction that define the genre. This one was so far in the future it bleeds into fantasy and magic, but still bothers to try and be convincing which I respect. Lots more interesting and cool though experiments.It also continued to have a rather single minded view of humanity (or intelligence in general)— but by now it would be weird to veer off path.I feel that the author could have probably wrapped things up a lot sooner. It basic keeps going until it can’t anymore, which was cool, but seemed anticlimactic to say the least.
第275条评论: Death's End is the third and final novel in the Three Body Problem Trilogy. This is by far the best book in the series and the return to Kevin Liu as a translator works better I think. This is not to say Joel Martinsen, who translated The Dark Forest is any better or worse but both the translators have a different rhythm.Death's End builds on the narrative explored in the first two books and contains a number of surprising twists as the story unfolds and builds to a climax first hinted at in The Dark Forest.I thoroughly enjoyed the series and would recommend them to anyone, scifi fan or otherwise. This is the kind of contemporary scif fi that I personally enjoy as it starts in a universe I know and more or less understand before exploring a possible future for human kind.
第276条评论: I really struggled to finish these books. I love deep, long, complex sci-fi a la Vernor Vinge, Peter F. Hamilton, etc., but for some reason I spent this entire trilogy in a love/hate relationship with the story.These books are at their best when the author is imagining possible future technology and its impacts, and at their worst when telling the actual story of the books, which is at times extremely difficult to suspend disbelief well enough to stay with it. The underlying premise is good, it's just really hard to buy that certain events would have played out the way they are depicted.The science is mostly very good or at least plausible, and writing for individual characters is good as well. However, when writing the reactions of society to large-scale events, I nearly always felt that it was extremely difficult to believe that global society or a significant chunk of it would react in the ways depicted in the story.Overall, I don't regret reading these, as there were some really cool "whoa" moments and some excellent tension/suspense - but I honestly don't understand why people are so excited about this series, it just doesn't seem that good. Perhaps my lack of familiarity with Chinese society is making me miss something that others are picking up on.
第277条评论: SPOILERS!!!!I loved the first two books but reading this one left me very frustrated. As other reviewers have noted the main character makes terrible decisions, yet other characters keep trusting her. Also the entire book I was waiting for her to get with Tianming, but then in the end when the system they were in gets turned into a dark domain, and suddenly she had missed him by 18 million years, I was very disappointed and frustrated. Then it turned out that Tianming had a portal to another universe that he left for her, and in this miniverse time goes by slower relative to the original universe. So she goes in the miniverse and they plan on waiting for the end of the universe, which should only take about 10 years in the miniverse. But why the hell didn't Tianming just wait in the miniverse for 18 million years, and still leave the message on the surface of the Blue Planet? Because AA didn't want to and anything she says goes? I stayed up all night reading and this is what I get? It was like being about to nut, then instead getting hit in the nuts.Still worth reading for the amazing concepts and ideas, but somewhat disappointing. 3/5 means it was okay, which is how I feel about it.
第278条评论: A strong finish to one of the better science fiction trilogies i have read. Death ends translation is very well done and reads cleanly and smooth. Liu is a mastermind and I have thoroughly enjoyed all of his novels. My favorite book of his so far is still the three body problem but deaths end and the dark forest are both remarkable pieces of literature that contribute strongly to the genre of science fiction.  The ending felt a little forced and inconsistent with the rest of the book which is probably my primary rational for voting it to a 4. In spite of this it's definitely worth a read as a follow-up to a fantastic series.
第279条评论: I wasn't sure if it would stick the landing but Cixin raised the bar with each successive book and I am now a universal nihilist.
第280条评论: I've read and loved good science fiction all my life and this book is the best in what was already a very good series.There is something about Cixin Liu's sense of scale that is special. The space travels which are the heart of this book are nicely imagined. The hibernating across centuries as well. I sometimes have to laugh because it seems more likely that humanity would be torn apart by such gymastics but maybe it could come true.I also love the idea of earth civilizations unified in defense of the planet and our culture. In a very real way, the cultures are becoming fused in a technical caldron, due to the economic and technical pressures that force partnerships across country borders.  The worlds in these books just take current day reality a bit further into the future.
第281条评论: Liu Cixin’s “Death’s End” brings The Three-Body Problem trilogy, about a first encounter with an alien civilization, to a spectacular close.  This volume focuses on Cheng Xin, the second Swordholder after Luo Ji, who was the primary subject of the second volume and the discoverer of the dystopian dark forest theory.  Liu, as with his earlier volumes, is particularly strong in novel, intriguing, even mind-blowing concepts.  His characters, on the other hand, are not always well drawn, especially women; even by the end the book Cheng Xin remains a bit of an enigma.  Also, Liu’s descriptions can get verbose and repetitive, however beautiful or tragic.  (Ken Liu returns as translator; he also translated the first volume, and his writing is elegant.)Readers may wonder if the payoff in the end was worth the march through 1800 pages.  I would put it this way: the payoff is in the way the story and the concepts behind the story unfold.  For instance, in this volume there is an elaborate fairy tale at the center of the book that, once interpreted, becomes an important plot device.  It’s really quite ingenious.  It’s that which makes the book so appealing to me rather than the drawn out ending.  Nonetheless, yes, I think one would be satisfied with the way Liu wraps up this volume and the trilogy.  Liu succeeds in realizing his own aphorism: “The ultimate fate of all intelligence beings has always been to become as grand as their thoughts” (p. 597).
第282条评论: Death’s End by Cixin Liu is a magnificent end to a magnificent trilogy. And it’s long, much longer than the other two books, but it does not drag and caps the tale with a ending that is unexpected and ultimately satisfying. In place of a western mad-dash of action and heroism. Death’s End is contemplative, thoughtful and exciting in it’s own quite way.The book starts off with a most unconventional love story; but don’t let that fool you, Death’s End is, as with the other books, packed full of bad-ass science and twisting waves of crisis and joy. The Dark Forest hangs heavy over the Earth and forces humanity to make hard choices. Things go wrong, thing go right, but as time goes by, the possibility of a Dark Forest attack grows. The people of earth make sacrifices, and more often than not, sacrifice the wrong things. Victories come and go, but as with the defeats, they are short lived and death lurks in the darkened depths of the universe. For all our history and power and brains, the people of earth are but babes in the woods, flailing and making to much noise, unaware of the monsters that live among the distant trees.Having read the trilogy straight through, I find the Ken Liu translations are my favorite, and I was surprised how different the voice was between the two translators. I think they should’ve asked Ken Liu to translate all three. But I am sure Ken had projects and deadlines of his own.Cixin Liu is a excellent story teller. And this book, much as the other books, had politics and philosophy at its heart; and like the other books, Mr. Liu leaves the answers up for debate. It was also about responsibility. Responsibility, to ones self, to ones fellow man and to the universe at large. But most of all, the book was about love. And that was the most unexpected peace of all. Behind all the science and aliens and disasters, love flowed through the pages. In some cases, it was a love that killed, and by killing saved others. In some cases, it was a love that saved, but ended up destroying. In some cases, it was a love that denied the consequences of it action and paid the price. Buy most of all, for me at least, it was the love life and it fragility that struck home. In a month or so, I may have to read the trilogy again; there is more there, I can feel it.If you read the first book, and were put of by the second, power through, because Death’s end is worth our time.
第283条评论: So this is the end of a trilogy, which means a certain amount of spoilerage for previous volumes is in order...In the first volume, The Three-Body Problem, humanity was confronted with an alien armada "only" four hundred years away and determined to take our Solar System. There was a great deal of interesting plot, but that was the -- what I said in my review: not so much a cliff-hanger as a distant view of a cliff.The second volume, The Dark Forest, told of humanity's desperate search for an answer to the Trisolarian menace. The solution eventually arrived at is a form of Mutually Assured Destruction.In Death's End, the solution fails. Cheng Xi, a woman from the 21st Century, is assigned to give the signal that will destroy both Solaris and Earth -- and fails to do so.Of course, that's just the start of a longer story that goes right up to the heat death of the universe and, by implication, beyond. More than the first two volumes, Death's End is full of the kind of infodumps that Clarke made workable. They are, by and large, workable here. Cheng Xi gradually moves forward into the distant future by a variety of means, and at each awakening we see the wonders of the new world through her eyes.Actually, this is more Stapledonian than Clarkean; and certainly the characters have more depth than Clarke's - not that this is saying a great deal. (Stapledon never really had characters in his travelogues of the future.)Cixin Liu is the kind of writer who tosses off ideas in passing that other writers would make into entire series, and there are a lot of ideas tossed off in the course of this trilogy and especially its last volume.If there's a theme to all this, it's an existential kind of theme: the Universe is a cold and heartless place, indifferent not only to Humanity but to life at all; life will always distrust and destroy life different from itself; and the only meaning to it all is what we make. It's not a cheering view - but it's a bracing one.Recommended to fans of Clarke, Stapledon, Baxter, and the like.
第284条评论: Certainly, the trilogy by Cixin Liu, that starts with the Three Body Problem, then the Dark Forest and concludes with Death's End is way up there among the most fascinating, compelling, creative, beautifully written trilogies I have ever read.  But man, it is depressing as hell.  It seems it does not matter where "intelligent" life comes from, whether it is Earth or Trisolaris or somewhere in the Orion arm of the Milky Way.  With very few examples, these are all species with advanced technologies and no humanity, and by humanity, I mean the civilized and caring part of humanity.For that reason alone, i almost can't recommend the book.  But as a psychiatrist, I am ware of the insights the books offers into the fragility of human kind, the fear, the panic, the despair the defensive desire for destruction, all themes we are faced with world wide in our daily lives.  Perhaps it can serve as a cautionary tale.The ending is deliberately ambiguous.  Just as there has been debate about the ultimate destiny of the universe, i.e. continuous expansion into nothingness, or rebirth in the big crunch, the ending leaves it open as to whether intelligence ever develops humanity or is destined to self-destruct.
第285条评论: It would be really nice if the book put more emphasise on thought of cheng xin towards tienming. cheng xin trampled on tianming one last time when she decided to take down the mini universe that he left for her, though in tianming POV he might not have anticipated the mini universe to take up resource to the last day of universe but cheng xin being absentminded about that fact or author’s non description of her thought of him made her cold (or weaken her character), towards the man who loves her unconditionally, who literally gave her star and universe. Without this she is like half empty shell whose character is only the embodiment of universe thinking, no mortal think like that selflessly. She should have put more thought about that decision. Maybe TM was undermined when he had no choice but living to end of his life with AA but the fact that he left CX the last msg proved that he still love her and remember her till the end, CX should have thought of that. Time is no excuse because in her ref of time it’s only a few years.
第286条评论: This book absolutely rules. If you like to explore a lot of different and unique sci-fi concepts, this is a must read! If you made it this far in the three body problem series, you would be doing yourself a huge disservice if you don't read this book. An incredible conclusion and probably my favorite of the trilogy.
第287条评论: A truly amazing series with many twists and turns that keeps the reader hooked all the way until the end.
第288条评论: Synopsis:In this final installment of the Three Body Problem series, author Cixin Liu delivers a conclusion so compelling, it completely changes the trajectory of the story itself. There are obviously some spoilers below for those who haven’t yet read the first two books:Wallfacer Lou Ji has cornered the Trisolarins into a stalemate, and an uneasy agreement is thus forthcoming between the humans and Trisolarins. Technology and culture are freely exchanged through the ubiquitous sophons. But while the dark forest principle works to keep the Trisolarins at bay, it also suggests that the Universe has far worse things in store. As Lou Ji ages, a new wallfacer is elected to take his place, but in this game of cunning and chance, there can be no variables left unaccounted for. As new crises arise, both within and outside of our solar system, humans must adapt in order to stay alive, and the direction the book takes swings dramatically with each new struggle. Meanwhile, a human is sent to the Trisolarins in order to negotiate and gain information, and what he finds there might just change the course of history for Trisolaris and humanity alike.Impressions:For someone who doesn’t like reading Sci-Fi all that much (I prefer fantasy), this books was completely engrossing. If you felt a little bummed about the slow pace of the second book, fear not! While you might not understand everything that’s going on in the third book right away, the pace never seems to lag. Plus, if you’re familiar with Cixin Liu’s writing style, you’ll know that things that seem unimportant at first become crucial later on. I was astounded at the descriptions of new technology, the flights of fancy, and twists in plot that keep you guessing up ‘till the end. I was so engrossed, that I actually found myself worried about potential dark forest strikes in reality; Liu’s just that good at flushing out pivotal ideas of his story and making them not only believable, but undeniably engaging. Overall, a satisfying end to a great trilogy.
第289条评论: Don't get me wrong I loved Book 1 and 2 of the Three Body Problem series but at times they were a little bit slow at times. However Book 3, even though it's longer than the other two books offered a non-stop wild ride of thrilling imagination.The directors of Game Of Thrones are going to make it into a Netflix show and while I'm sure they won't be able to do it full justice it should be pretty awesome to watch!
第290条评论: This series is so distinct to any other sci-fi I’ve ever read. The scale of this book doesn’t stop. Heavy and heady sci-fi
第291条评论: I don't often do reviews but this is the best and most imaginatively enthralling SF series that I have read since Isaac Asimov's Foundation Series.
第292条评论: Book three of the Three Body Problem trilogy.Constantly surprising reading. Wonderful ideas. Beautiful translation.Read the trilogy. Highest recommendation.
第293条评论: Amazing. So worth reading. Incredibly broad and imaginative story. Has shifted my perception of the universe!
第294条评论: Like Arthur C. Clarke on cocaine.
第295条评论: If you've read the other two books, you have to read this book. The ending is perfect and leaves the readers satisfied.
第296条评论: Great book. One fun fact: The factory Cixin Liu worked at went bankrupt when he was writing books. That's probably why the ending is so depressing.
第297条评论: Imaginative, but a bit of a hodgepodge compared to the first to books. Impressed me as a work of sic fi, but less so as one of the human story.
第298条评论: This trilogy is a thought provoking movement through eons of time and universes of space. A meditation on scale, life and society.
第299条评论: Although billed as the third book in a trilogy, it is not.  Rather, it is an alternate-timeline rework of the original story.  The first two books were truly ground-breaking and interesting because of the Chinese cultural elements, but the plot really ended with the second book.  I didn't need to reread the same story with a "what if something else had happened" plot.
第300条评论: This was one book of a very good trilogy.  Really, really liked it!
第301条评论: Truly exceptional series.
第302条评论: The worst book in the Trilogy. Feels like the author needed to stretch this story to 3 books. Completely unnecessary. Should have stopped with the Dark Forest.
第303条评论: Fantastic conclusion to a great trilogy
第304条评论: Very Good.
第305条评论: Beautiful writing and translation
第306条评论: The new bible.
第307条评论: All I can say is WOW!!!  I can’t recommend this whole series enough, esp. as it keeps getting better and better.  The final book is the single most expansive sci-fi book I’ve ever read and is easily in my top-five of all-time sci fi reads.  Strong recommend!!!
第308条评论: Loved  it!
第309条评论: Weakest of the series, but if you read the previous books you'll still want to finish it.
第310条评论: Almost completely unrelated to the first 2 books.
第311条评论: Although I still find difficult to follow the plot sometimes due to the names in Chinese  ... the style is slightly different from what you may expect from a non-asian writer, this makes it very interesting to read.The story covered by the three books is very good, difficult to predict  which is a very good thing in this kind of literature because it is not easy to come up with really new ideas which are capable of concealing where they are heading to and what they will use a certain idea for somewhere ahead in the book.Great reading. Looking forward to explore something more from Cixin Liu.Im Grunde wird hier der Stil der ersten beiden Bände fortgesetzt, der Inhalt besteht also wiederum aus einer Mischung aus soziokultureller Diskussion und science fiction Roman. Im Gegensatz zu den ersten beiden Bänden gleitet er aber im dritten und letzten Band, insbesondere zu Ende hin, in zu viel Spekulation und Zufälle ab, um es noch glaubwürdig und damit spannend erscheinen zu lassen. Naturgemäss muss der Autor, da wir uns im Kontext des Buches in der sehr fernen Zukunft befinden, seine Phantasie bemühen, wo er sich in den ersten beiden Bänden noch auf Fakten und Tatsachen der Forschung berufen konnte. Allerdings wirkt es doch arg dick aufgetragen. Das letzte Drittel des Buches hätte sich der Autor fast komplett sparen können, da die Ereignisse nur noch sehr entfernt etwas mit der bisherigen Handlung zu tun haben. Man spürt den Wunsch des Autors, die Geschichte zu einem definitiven Ende zu bringen, dabei verliert er aber etwas den roten Faden. Nichts desto trotz eine interessante Mischung, bei der man merkt, dass der Autor mit den physikalischen Grundlagen und der Technik über die er schreibt, vertraut ist. Leider fällt dieser dritte Teil etwas gegenüber den ersten beiden Bänden ab.
第312条评论: The imagination of the author is amazing. For those ordinary people scientific references are impossible to understand. There are many repetitions which require the readers tremendous patience. However, you never wish to stop reading this saga.
第313条评论: Tremendous scope. Brilliant imagination. Deep and meaningful, not afraid to explore philosophy, psychology and aliens!
第314条评论: Received in good condition but not yet read as I bought all three in the trilogy. First book was good so, hopefully, this will be good as well.
第315条评论: An amazing mindblowing book. You don't read it so much as experience it. I particularly enjoyed the fact  that its basis is real science, added to the Chinese spiritual elements.
第316条评论: This has been a really good series throughout, with lots of clever and thought provoking ideas. The story was also intriguing , and made me want to read more. The writing let it down in places, a bit clunky, hence 4*. Can't say too much about the plot, because it would give too much away. Intelligent and different sci-fi, well worth reading.
第317条评论: Still slow and rambling in parts, but vast in scope. A fitting end to the trilogy. The science goes way out there in this one. As usual, questions are posed about the future of humanity and how we react to extraterrestrial influences.
第318条评论: Great story with great technology and good explanation but sorry the ends of each book of the trilogy are very bad.New character coming from nowhere, characters that appear and disappear only to help the author getting out of a dead end.The worse being the conclusions done in 2 pages ! Sorry but I think we deserved better.
第319条评论: Death's End, the last part in the Three-Body Problem trilogy is probably also the most unusual. It is probably the first book I have read that covers a time-span of billions of years. It is even more philosophical than the previous two books, so it may not be for everyone. But especially the last quarter is fascinating, even thrilling although millennia pass in the story. It also benefits from another great translation by Ken Liu.
第320条评论: In the weeks I've spent reading the Three Body ProblemI I've wanted to get to the end. Upon coming to the final parts i didn't want this to end. This was more than reading; I felt the world's, the people and the universe within these words come alive in my dreams and my thoughts throughout the days. Thank-you.
第321条评论: This is the lasts book of the Dark Forest trilogy. The whole series is excellent. Very creative. Far beyond the usual good guys, bad guys, shoot em up typical science fiction. This is mind expanding.Belíssimo final da trilogia. Li em inglês e acompanhei com a versão em chinês. Muito boa tradução. Algumas discussões sérias.
第322条评论: Received on time as a gift. I have read the series in Chinese, it is a good book, more people should know it.
第323条评论: It kept me guessing as to where the human race may end till the very end!
第324条评论: This continuation of The Three Body Problem and The Dark Forest becomes amazing. The trans-galactic travel across folded space and the images of sometimes shocking futures draws one toward a splendid climax.
第325条评论: A must read for any seasoned hard sci fi lover.  The breathtaking scope of the author's imagination is exhilarating.  I can't wait to see what this author comes up with next.
第326条评论: Indepth, full of detail, sometimes overly subtle, but I do love a book that forces one to think about what they've read and see how the story comes together.
第327条评论: Amazingly high quality.  One of the best science fiction series ever written. The plot is amazing and the authors writing and imagination is at the genius level. Cannot recommend this enough.
第328条评论: Poetic and analytical, mathematical and prosaic. A work of literary genius that will go down as my favorite series of all time
第329条评论: A good and unpredictable ending to one of the best science fiction series i've ever read. I'm a long time sci-fi fan and would put this series up there with the classics (foundation series, dune series, rama series...). Can't recommend it highly enough, and interested to see how the chinese film adaption will turn out.
第330条评论: This is just superior sci fi. Buy the whole series and enjoy. The only downside is you will end reading too late at night. It's a great series and there are so many unexpected plot developments. I never thought that the story was  heading where I thought. Quite "techy" with lots of mindbending physics.
第331条评论: Best science fiction series I have ever read!  I want more...I now feel like all other sci-fi will be bland.  I read the series because a friend recommended them so strongly, so I wanted to see if he was just being dramatic.  He wasn't; it really is that good.
第332条评论: Great book
第333条评论: Great ending to the Trilogy.  I truly enjoyed reading the series.  I am horrible at writing reviews.  But if you like science fiction this is an absolute must read.  My wife wishes I could find a Farsi translation of the books because I have been raving about it so much.
第334条评论: Excellent conclusion to the 3 Body Problem trilogy. My favorite was the first book, but all three are worth reading. This one really has some wild imagination behind the science. Nice that he sticks to the speed of light being the fastest speed and deals with the consequences.
第335条评论: According to my opinion, a book’s value can be judged by my willing to read it again. Now I finished the book for the third time and still feel so touched for some parts of it. It is really my favorite book along with Ray Bradbury’s Frost and Fire. And Death’s End is the best of the trilogy.
第336条评论: Great imagination, exciting time-span and fun. This third part does not let you down. A lot of telling and little showing in this memoir-like evil fairytale on the fate of our universe.
第337条评论: I found this book to have a slightly different feel to the first two, more like a fairy tale and more poetic. Looking back I would say this is one of the most interesting series I've ever read.
第338条评论: i really liked the first two books in this series.  however, this 'book' appears to be more of a collection of short stories and excerpts from the first two books that didn't make it through editing but were too good to simply throw away.  if you are looking for a cohesive story you best look elsewhere as you won't get it from this book.
第339条评论: It is difficult to imagine the intellect it takes to imagine a story like this one. It stretched the way I think
第340条评论: This is an incredible book.  Many concepts are raised which would ordinarily be the subject of a whole Sci-Fi novel in themselves.
第341条评论: Excellent book offers a rare glimpse into the interesting chinese style of chinese sci fi. Engaging and with mind boggling ideas.
第342条评论: Thank you for a wonderful, engaging, powerful, and life affirming story. The three book series is a wild ride through a universe fantastically imagined.
第343条评论: Unbelievably original. This series had been phenomenal and I am sorry it has ended. Wonderful story with great writing. 5 stars
第344条评论: I liked the first two books, but this one really seems like the author hit his stride.  A great hard sci-fi read.
第345条评论: Very interesting projections.
第346条评论: Truly visionary, and a stunning and breathtaking achievement. This is science fiction at its best, full of big ideas and hope.
第347条评论: A roller-coaster ride with a satisfying ending
第348条评论: Some how this author has displaced the culture series in my mind. Incredible book. I'm currently now reading all of his other works.
第349条评论: I’ve read all three books in this series (Three Body Problem, Dark Forest and this one, the last in the series). They’re mind blowing. What an imagination. It’ll completely change how you think about the future and what would happen if we ever do come across life on another planet. There’s some really complicated science behind these books  explained very simply and wrapped up in lots of human interest stories and characters you can relate to.
第350条评论: This is a proper different take on things. Has many contempory elements and great insights into human nature. The ending kind of ran out of steam, but I suspose when you get to the end of space and time you are allowed to relax a bit.I really, really enjoyed these three books. I checked some of the authors other works as was devistated with disappointment. The Three body problem is a tour de force, a game changer, the other works I have tried from the same author are patially read and abandoned.A one hit wonder, but one hell of a hit
第351条评论: This book is so “other worldly” you wonder whether it has itself been born from an extraterrestrial intelligence.  Has some really intellectually challenging concepts.  Brilliant.
第352条评论: I was really encouraged when I read the first book of the series. In order of interest this would be the second one. Or is a story that could be written in two books or the complete argument will need more than three…It’s only my humble opinion.
第353条评论: The perfect sci-fi book, with layer upon layer of scientific theory and history brought together in an epic triology. Plenty of existential crises layer and I've finally finished reading, but these books will stick with me for a while to come.
第354条评论: After reading the first two books I desperately wanted to know what would happen in the final book. Unfortunately I feel as if Death's End was a muted conclusion to an otherwise brilliant storyline. I don't want to reveal anything in my review but it should definitely be read if only to complete the trilogy of books.I was left feeling disappointed and frustrated by the conclusion of some of the story arcs as well as the characters. There are still plenty of brilliant moments and science that made me love the first two books.
第355条评论: I have been reading  science fiction  for 58 years and  Cixin Liu  is up there with the greats  of the genre like Heinlein, Asimov,  Le Guin etc.  A thought provoking  and totally absorbing book that should be read by everyone , not just sci fi fans..
第356条评论: Waste of money
第357条评论: A great leap forward in terms of ideas, scope and readability over the second book, I found this volume an easier and quicker read, plus much more enjoyable. A fitting end to the trilogy and worth ploughing through the second book to get to.
第358条评论: Masterful and elegantly written
第359条评论: Third book in series and it brought the series to a fitting and marvelous  conclusion. I would highly recommend the series.
第360条评论: This story is on the grand scale of Isaac Asimov and the "Foundation" series.  I will admit that I had to work at the writing style, but to be fair that is a result of me not adapting fast enough. To be honest I have the same problem with many English authors, such as Shakespeare, and Hemingway.I really highly recommend this for any science fiction reader who is looking for fresh ideas and a well researched series.
第361条评论: One of the best science fiction books I have ever read.  It’s amazing.
第362条评论: Very rarely is the third book in a trilogy the best one - so this is a rare book indeed. I thoroughly enjoyed the whole series but Death’s End is certainly my favorite. Don’t read it late at night if you can help it, it will be very hard to fall asleep afterwards as your mind races to comprehend what you’ve just read.
第363条评论: This is the third in the trilogy and they should be read in order. Great imagination with a mix of complex themes and twists as the story unfolds. Interesting social and moral issues are raised, with some unexpected but welcome references to history, literature and art. I found an apparent inconsistency with Volume 2, The Dark Forest, in which Cheng Xin interrupted Tianming's euthanasia. Also in volume 2, who was Bill Hines' wallbreaker? These are minor points, though, and I'd highly recommend the trilogy.
第364条评论: Book 2 was the best.  This one was choppier than the others with less imagery and character development and some parts that were somewhat tedious.  But face it. The first two books set very high expectations.
第365条评论: Could have ended 100 pages earlier without much loss. Last bit seemed rushed like perhaps the author was thinking about a fourth book but did not have the heart to write it. In any case, it was a good read.
第366条评论: I've just finished the entire trilogy and the thing that kept me engaged was were the very interesting hard sci-fi concepts and solid storyline. However, I was continually halted from my progress by the long winded, wordy and digressive writing style. With a bit of effort and time I was able to make it through all three books, but would have enjoyed them more if they'd had better flow and focus.
第367条评论: I've never read a book like it.The protagonist is not really Cheng Xin. She is the pen of the story. The protagonist is the human race as it struggles through the eras after first contact with the Trisolarians and finds the universe a truly cruel entity.Cixin Liu's science fiction paints a terrifying picture of the future and a reason why maybe we should cower in the shadows.
第368条评论: I must admit that I find hard science sci-fi novels somewhat difficult to read at times. The technical jargon can be very dry and the cerebral concepts can be too mind boggling for me - but this  entire trilogy is definitely worth the read. Time and again I found myself online looking up concepts I had never heard of, in other words, Liu Cixin stimulated my mind in more than one way.
第369条评论: This third book in the trilogy was mind-expanding. The concepts of curvature propulsion and other-dimensional space will be on my mind for a while. Very thought provoking.
第370条评论: Engaging until the last 1/4, where no one catches a break and the phrase “and then it got worse” kept entering my mind. Made for a depressing and unsatisfying ending.
第371条评论: I love Cixin Liu's writing.  I can't wait to read the third volume of the Three-Body Problem trilogy.  He wrote: "Every era puts invisible shackles on those who live through it.  I can only dance in my chains."
第372条评论: Not as good as the first two.  You will still read it to finish the trilogy, but it will be a longer slog.
第373条评论: Great read. I would say that a lot of research was conducted by the author. An intelligent and thought provoking write.
第374条评论: You should read all of the books in this great series. Of all of them this one is clearly the best. What an amazing story. It's breadthis incredible, it spans billions of years, explores many subjects and leaves you wanting more.
第375条评论: I have no idea how you could read the first two books of the trilogy and not pick this up. Gets a little crazy at times, but you'll be turning the pages all the same. Best sci-fi read I've had in a while.
第376条评论: This had the most interesting plot points, was the smoothest read and was the deepest dive into interesting physics problems.
第377条评论: A crazy book with wild ideas that really make you think. This is one of those books I won't ever forget...definitely recommended.
第378条评论: A riveting trilogy full of twists and turns. While I am not a big sci-fi reader, this was really hard to put down. Also helps spin business thinking in different directions
第379条评论: Agree with others that The Dark Forest was the pinnacle of the series, but this one took some of the central ideas/philosophies there and took them to the next logical level (and levels beyond). A seriously thought out exploration of how intelligence should consider its place in the universe, and that "human nature" might not be the only way. As with someone like Vernor Vinge, there are enough ideas in each of these books to have spawned several novels, and the blending of philosophy, hard SF, human frailty, epic timelines and settings is up there with anything I've ever read. A compelling vision of how the universe might be, with ideas that will stay with you for a long time.
第380条评论: Liu Cixin is a wonderful new discovery for us (me at least) in the west.Death's End is the final book in the Three Body Problem trilogy.  I  intend to reread themserially since there was a bit of a wait for publication of the english translation of the final installment.For me , this series is not only the fine work of the author but also the superb translation of Ken Liu . Anyone who has ever attempted to translate mathmatical concepts , should  appreciate the challenge of describing the intersection  of fourth (or higher ) dimensional worlds with lower three or two dimesional space. I salute you sir!
第381条评论: A perfect ending to a daring Sci Fi trilogy reminiscent of Asimov. If you love the science within science fiction coupled with deep imagination you will love this series. Start with the Three Body Problem. There are worlds within worlds in this story. It took a while to get used to the Chinese names and the amount of story lines and characters but in the end they all worked together to form a complete universe. You know a book is good when it ends and you are surprised because it can easily keep going but also satisfied.
第382条评论: In my opinion the author should stop writing female characters. He is not good at it. You're telling me the guy who barely graduated, ended up at a dead end job, basically gave up on life was able to become the ultra genius capable of concocting an ultra secret code in stories while surrounded and monitored by literally aliens. And yet the genius over-achieving FMC lacks the acumen to overcome her "feminine sensibilities" to take the right logical decision however cruel it maybe on paper ? Oh COME ON!!! I would rather have no diversity than whatever stereotypical drab this is. Also the ending is so bleak. The author basically uses three whole books to tell us that our existence doesn't matter in the grandest of grand schemes. I wish I hadn't bought these books. Complete waste of money.
第383条评论: The whole trilogy is so beautiful that this portion comes as the perfect complement to its previous parts.You will have left the real world long ago, so let your imagination fly.
第384条评论: Loved this series.  Maybe a little long, but full of fascinating concepts!  I have an idea.  It comes from articles like "Researchers Use DNA to Store and Retrieve Digital Movie" ... using CRISPR gene editing.  I can imagine Cixin Liu writing a story about the discovery that archaea bacteria already contain a galaxy of information left by an alien civilization (think panspermia), like fusion drive, light speed drive, space-time warp, identification of dark matter, etc.  What do you think?
第385条评论: And you Mr. Liu for writing this Trilogy. I can certainly understand why you have received awards. Having read numerous authors of science fiction including Isaac Asimov, your Trilogy measures up to the Foundation Trilogy. You truly could have expanded this trilogy to several more volumes. You presented so much information and carried your reader across space and time. Just when I thought I had it figured out, another twist, turn, new idea, etc. would happen. Sometimes while I read, especially this third novel, I found myself having to take breaks just to digest the magnitude of the material. Thank you again for your mastery in creating this thought provoking adventure of science fiction.
第386条评论: I actually like this book the best in the series. This book both has events of the immense scale, and at the same time shows how badly things can go wrong if one uses feelings for policy.
第387条评论: This was a fitting conclusion to the trilogy but not as good as the first two. The ending was great, but to get there the story jumped through a lot like Cixin Liu was in a hurry. Overall though, this trilogy comes highly recommended for me and honestly has something for everybody. I'm not a big fiction reader, and certainly not into Sci-Fi, but this was really fun and explores so many topics both directly and through the story dialogue.
第388条评论: The story is great and finally, in this book, you get a true sense of direction. Looking back at the 3 volumes it is truly an epic story in the word's truest sense. However, the author once again simply cannot let any event go by the reader without giving it a page long description that, in many cases, serves no purpose. There were times when I thought of actually putting the book down, giving up, even though I had read the previous 2 volumes.
第389条评论: great
第390条评论: Insightful science fiction!
第391条评论: If you enjoyed the first two books you must give a look to this one.
第392条评论: Great science fiction. I highly recommend to all sci-fi fans！
第393条评论: A brilliant story to round out an exhilarating trilogy.
第394条评论: Very imaginative
第395条评论: Nothing to say that I haven't said before
第396条评论: The story is fast paced and wide ranging. Unfortunately, integral to the story is a set of attitudes of the author, regarding gender and sexuality, that are rather difficult to accept and that many will find offensive.
第397条评论: Ending a trilogy that starts out as good as this one does, and has a middle that is so heart poundingly great was going to be a tough order, and maybe after a few weeks I'll come around to it, but I felt the ending was weak compared to how great the rest of this story arc was. It isn't by any means bad, but I had high hopes for something other than how it ended. I am reminded of "Seveneves", in how the first 2/3 rd's are fantastic, and then it trails off and didn't really capture that same essence all the way through until the very end.Worth the read just for the glory that is The Three Body Problem, and Dark Forest alone.3部作を全て読んだうえでのコメントです。未知との遭遇、ビジター、ET、インデペンデンスデイ、コンタクトなどなど地球外生物を扱った流れの作品のなか全体としてはインデペンデンスデイ＋コンタクトに近い印象を受けました。インデペンデンスデイほど能天気ではないものですし、コンタクトのような信仰と科学の再現性の対立のような話ではありません。次元の表現は面白いものでした。
第398条评论: Brilliant and sweeping in its scope, but I found it less satisfying than the first two installments in the trilogy. The story seemed to set up situations that it deliberately failed to resolve. People have described this as a more philosophical approach; I tend to think of it as very pessimistic. Basically, everything that could go wrong, DOES go wrong. A lot of the story is about coming to grips with these escalating disasters. Even so, brilliant and sweeping.
第399条评论: Best of the trilogy. Kind of long and slow as it covers centuries of future human civilization, but at the end goes were no mind has gone before. Not clear what the Trisolarian role was at the end.
第400条评论: I feel this book is frequently panned or under-rated, to the point where it seems the reviewer read a different book or is trying to place it into some preferred mold. I suggest reading it for what it is, because there's a whole lot going on here, including an exploration of social relations, direct critique of monotheistic values from an outsider perspective,, self-conscious literary criticism, explicit roadmap and guide to its own mysteries, existential breakdown, meditation on the awful sides to  us, geopolitical satire and a whole lot more. And these are just the big topics.
第401条评论: Cixin Liu has made a perfect ending to a damn near perfect sci fi trilogy.  I look forward to more books from cixin.
第402条评论: This is perfect science fiction, using real and speculative physics as the base for building a world of philosophical dilemma and contemplation. It is part of a masterful trilogy. Liu has a very dark perspective on the universe and the consequence of multiple civilizations, from which he attempts to squeeze some lightness and hope. Agree or not, the world he constructs is fascinating. It is a worthy expenditure of your time.
第403条评论: ExcellentC'mon tic duh'd Sri if st uhh'd Sri if chi Sri if cnn'd did it'd trash tech yrs div
第404条评论: If you wonder why this trilogy called "Remembrance of Earth's Past"... Well, you'll get an answer to your question. As for me... I seldom read such grand, imaginative and interesting book.
第405条评论: I flew through the pages of this novel.While the first book has been partly grainy repainting the struggles,of the last, and the second has been more a “reasonable” science fiction continuation, this last one has been bigger than life - yes bigger than the universe.Maybe too fantastically and too big- but still based on science theories which is the most endearing to me!
第406条评论: This three part series is excellently written and translated from it's original Chinese. This really raises the bar. It's Azimov and Clarke on steroids.
第407条评论: The first two in the series were great. (4.5/5 and 5/5 stars). This one? meh.I felt that towards the end of this book, the Author/Translator really just liked the sound of their own writing voice. There was melodramatization of events and sometimes excessive use metaphors. Don't get my wrong, that stile of writing is great (Oryx and Crake by Margaret Atwood is a good example). At some point,  I just wanted the book to end. And that was page 400/600. It was drawn out like an extended stay from your in-laws.The book possesses wild an creative ideas.  A nice style of writing. But he should have just stopped at 400 pages, and reduced some of the redundancy or attempts to explain, using physics or faux-physics, the elements of his universe.
第408条评论: What an amazing book and amazing series. I read the last 200 pages in two days. Any fan of Sci Fi needs to read this, with the third book containing so many interesting technologies and theories and ideas about time & space. What a journey!
第409条评论: Nothing in the first two books prepared me for this one. So many long and tedious descriptions derived from speculative scientific hypotheses about the nature of the cosmos. Highly imaginative, and probably interesting to physicists or astronomers, but I was left craving some action I could relate to.  Book 2 was much more interesting.
第410条评论: Great book, definitely completes the story arc from the first 2 books. I mean it goes from the 60's to... (won't spoil this) but literally this 3 book story comprises of millions of years of a story arc. Different characters in all 3 books but there are some returning. the main characters stories are well closed out in each book however. The science and the possibilities of things explain makes you wonder if it really could be this way. Amazing book, glad I read all 3!
第411条评论: Have you ever read a long series or watched a long show that you really enjoyed, and then something at the very end makes you suddenly realize the whole thing is garbage?I finally finished this last book in the Three Body Problem trilogy last night, and up until the end of the third book the series looked like this:The reader and characters are presented with a series of puzzles and strange elaborate metaphors, and as the characters solve the puzzles and decipher the metaphors they learn about and subsequently defend against an alien invasion.Now that I've finished the series, however, I realize it's actually about this:A hysterical woman invites aliens to invade the Earth. Manly men spend three books defending the Earth from the aliens. Then another hysterical woman is put in charge of defending the Earth, and she screws up so badly, multiple times, that a completely different group of aliens destroys the entire solar system and exterminates humanity. Each time that hysterical woman screws up, a manly man steps in and fixes it at the last second, but in the end it turns out that her screw ups were too big, and the entire solar system is destroyed in plodding, pornographic detail as a result.Honestly it's kind of ironic that this book series repeatedly has scenes where a character figures out the last piece of a puzzle and there's a big revelation where the whole puzzle turns out to have a different meaning than he thought, and then when you read the last two chapters you have the same sort of experience and everything snaps into place and you realize the whole series is revoltingly sexist and nihilistic.
第412条评论: This book is definitely neither upbeat nor hopeful, and the main character Cheng Xin is pretty boring, but it is truly epic in scope, endlessly imaginative, and by far the best of the trilogy. I felt like the falling action was a bit too drawn out for not really resolving much. But unlike the others, this one is a page turner and is full of twists and surprises. And quite dark, and poignant.
第413条评论: These books have been a joy to read.  The third has so much to live up to, but it did extremely well.  The story is excellent, the characters are solid, and the scientific ideas and creativity are second to none.  A must read for sci-fi enthusiasts.
第414条评论: Wow.  This is epic.  If you honor and appreciate the achievement of Asimov's Foundation  series, then you will be awed by this trilogy.  I'd  rather not give away anything.  Just read it.
第415条评论: This is more than a simple trilogy. Is a journey through space and time. Very nicely written, you won't be able to stop reading until the end.
第416条评论: This is the third book of the trilogy and the longest of the three.  It is very imaginative and well constructed with twists that will surprise you.  I suspect that this will become on the classics of sci-fi literature.
第417条评论: I speak Chinese, and was a little afraid that I would not like the English translate, but I do.It is very well read, and not harming the story flow at all.I wish the voice can read Chinese names better though.
第418条评论: This is an amazing series.  Mind expanding  and wildly entertaining.  Also, I really appreciated the author's patient explanations for those of us not schooled in physics, math and engineering.
第419条评论: Lacks editing willpower necessary to keep the narrative from dead end distractions that dim the brilliance of this book in cosmic dust.<> 25% word soup of unnecessary detail and description<> 25% unfinished thoughts and observations<> 50% pure joy to read and dream along with<> slight disharmony in vibrations of very odd decisions
第420条评论: Breathtaking sweep across time and space. A truly remarkably creative trilogy full of sub tales like pocket universes throughout the story.
第421条评论: Everything is as it is advertised, and promptly delivered!
第422条评论: I love the whole Three Body Problem series by Cixin Liu. The English translation is very well done, although they used two different translators, and so the style of book 2 is a little different than books 1 and 3. It's not an easy series, but it's a fantastic journey that also taught me about Eastern perspective Sci-Fi, notably different from a Western take on things. Really great reading, very thought provoking and imaginative.
第423条评论: I enjoyed this trilogy way more than I expected! I would absolutely recommend this to any sci-fi enthusiast
第424条评论: This book represents the conclusion of what has now become my favorite science fiction series. Cixin Liu's paints a detailed and highly plausible picture of the Universe, formulating a feasible answer to Fermi's Paradox in the process. While I wasn't completely content with the ending, I still loved the book (and the entire trilogy) overall.After starting to read this book, I could not let go of it until it was finished (less than a week later). Personally, I recommend this book to all my friends to the point of being annoying, simply because of how much I enjoyed the quality of the hard sci-fi and the author's amazing pacing.
第425条评论: I was recommended this series from a staff member at my local book store. I purchased the first book from him, and got hooked.It's a little slow to get started, and can be difficult to follow along with who's who if you're not familiar with Chinese names, as the book has been translated from Chinese to English.I wish there was more hard sci-fi out there like this. Most of what we see on TV or read about is more sci-fi fantasy. What I really love about these books is that they explain the technology well. Towards the end of the series we get into more theoretical territory, stuff like how we might travel to alternate universes, and what different planes of existence might be like. Yet, all of this is written in a fairly believable way. The laws of physics are bent, not broken.I love this series and I wish I could read them for the first time again.As for delivery, it arrived quickly and in great condition.
第426条评论: I liked this book better than the second one. I thought the second book spent too much time describing the brooding thoughts of Luo Ji. This book packs a lot of action and it can safely be argued that it is one of the most imaginative works of sci-fiction of the past years.Things start to unravel by the end of the book. The final chapters just drag on and on which suffocates the punch of what should have been very stark developments. By the end, the whole story is reduced, once again, to just more brooding. I think that this ending negated the epic aspirations of the series. It was disappointing.
第427条评论: As inventive, and (as a non-Chinese reader) profoundly alien from a cultural perspective as the first two books in the series. It reminds me of the best of William Olaf Stapledon (e.g. Star Maker, Last and First Men), both in themes and in breadth. Very long but totally engaging. Wonderful.
第428条评论: I think most reviews have described what I feel. But in addition, I can say that I hate the character Cheng Xin extremely. The author want her to represent maternity maybe. We know love and kindness do not definitely lead to weakness. But in Cheng Xin's situation, she is really really a little girl. I don't understand if she did not have the determination like Luo Ji, why should she enroll in the Sword holder? If she is really kind enough, why could she cruelly send her classmate's brain to the universe. All can explain is that she is always hesitating. Don't know how to make a choice that she will not regret.
第429条评论: The final installment of the trilogy is - in my opinion - the weakest.While the world and universe building in this book is truly inspiring and Cixin comes up with some novel and interesting concepts of space civilizations, he falls into the "bigger, bigger, bigger" trap that many series fall into. As each novel raises the stakes higher and higher, at some point the reader can't help but feel numb to the sheer size and scope. The book, like modern physics, delves into the realm of philosophy. "What is real?" "what is time?" "what is the universe?". All interesting questions and good concepts to explore which seem to be very roughly and unsatisfactorily explained. Like trying to describe a 10-dimensional universe with 3-dimensional analogies, this is a feat that is extremely difficult to perform properly without sounding ridiculous.Even though these shortcomings I liked the book a lot. It is enthralling and I had a hard time putting it down. Too bad it kind of spirals out of control towards the end.
第430条评论: Death's End is the cosmic conclusion to Cixin Liu's trilogy that began with the "Three-Body Problem," and it sticks the landing in a major way.The story marches through future history, with science-fictional concepts that are part hard-science and part philosophy. At the same time, there's a sense of hopefulness and catharsis, of the next human adventure. Talking about the details doesn't seem like a viable idea; you need to just let it all wash over you as you read. (reviewed by Joe Crowe, [...],[...])
第431条评论: This is a review of the trilogy. Overall it is very inventive, with a constant stream of ideas. Sadly, many of these ideas are very flakey.The science wasn’t all bad, but it wasn’t great either. Perhaps the most disappointing thing is in the third volume, where students are given 3 “life or death” puzzles; two of them are trivial while the third is the classic rope burning puzzle for measuring 45 minutes given ropes that take 60 minutes to burn. Incredibly, the solution given in the book is completely wrong. (Did the author not get any feedback before the book was published?!)The overall story line is a bit ridiculous, and the portrayal of civilizations silly beyond measure. And the biggest drawback is the depiction of the individuals: very one dimensional!But in the middle of the third book there is a fairy tale: perhaps the whole trilogy should be interpreted as a fairy tale: this might make some of the more absurd aspects of the book more palatable.Overall, the trilogy wasn’t a great read, and I certainly couldn’t recommend it.The points I give it are all for “originality”. I found that after reading the book I thought about it from time to time, and perhaps this is the real test of a book. So, despite the trilogy’s numerous, serious shortcomings, perhaps it is worth the effort.
第432条评论: Love the dark forest concept.
第433条评论: Most book series are written so they can stand alone - you can understand without reading the previous books. This book constantly name drops characters or situations from previous books.There is not much plot to this book, just the main characters surviving through endless challenges - from the  destruction of the solar system to the destruction of the universe - in ways that are unbelievable.The book explores some interesting ideas of string theory, multiple dimensions, the big bang and the collapse of the universe, which makes it an interesting book. But as I said, endless problems and interesting ideas strung together does not make a story.
第434条评论: Just read it.
第435条评论: Of all the books in the Three Body Problem trilogy, I enjoyed Death's End the least. It still has a lot of unique ideas and situations that are truly thought provoking, however as an actual novel it's fairly weak. The main characters are nowhere near as interesting as in the previous two books, the pacing is quite glacial- showing symptoms of the author wanting to cram in too much in this final installment, and many of the plot actions don't make logical sense beyond leading to the particular idea showcase the author needed the plot to go to. I personally have no problem with open-ended stories, so there's actually a part of me that wishes I had never read this book and left the story as it was at the end of The Dark Forest. It's not bad per se, but it's an empty read.
第436条评论: As a Chinese reader and fan of Big Liu, I have to say that reading the English version translated by Ken Liu is a refreshing, thrilling and unforgettable experience. The translation was smooth, elegant and quite smart, bringing me the same awesome feeling just like when I first read the original versions.Although not a ending well accepted by all our fans, this is the best and darkest book of the series. And it will certainly stay in the greatest science fiction list.
第437条评论: This book series is a Tolkien scale epic of the interstellar science fiction genre. Without giving in to cheesy alien species interactions, Cixin weaves a tale entirely from the human perspective that spans eons and delves into thought provoking sociological concepts that will positively reset your position on the universe. I'm having a hard time putting into words, just what an impactful book this is, and have no point of reference for any other book that might qualify as its equal.Well done, Cixin Liu!
第438条评论: Besides the amazing story, the book has some realistic reflection of our world. Did Chenxin remind you some female political correct merciful leader in Europe?
第439条评论: I have read the original Chinese version. I remember how stunned I was when reading the three fairy tales. The translation is great, it makes the scenes in the story more vivid and engaging.
第440条评论: Epic! Beyond imagination.
第441条评论: Such a GRAND story!!! Plots, words, and si-fi theories all super fascinating. When you reach the end of the book, you will literally don't know what to say...coz everything ends, including the universe.
第442条评论: One would expect Liu Cixin to be inducted into the Sci Fi Hall of Fame for this insanely creative trilogy. It’s that good.
第443条评论: I am sure this book is much better in its original language but the translation adds bizarre word choice and halting syntax to a contrived plot. By his own admission, the author is not an engineer and a lack of research undermines this series at every turn. If you enjoyed Andy Weir's highly technical, near future action sequences, the Three Body Problem will annoy you endlessly. If you enjoyed Frank Herbert's highly speculative and philosophical far future Dune, Cixin Liu's insistence on ham-fisted STEM in an otherwise interesting philosophical exploration will annoy you endlessly.
第444条评论: Fantastic series. Anyone who likes science fiction should read
第445条评论: Read the first two books in the Three Body series first. You can tell a nations future by the power of their science fiction.
第446条评论: Second greatest science fiction book ever written (The greatest science fiction book ever written is Three body problem book #2 The Dark Forest).
第447条评论: Most of the reviews were all pretty good. I managed to get through 'Three Body' & 'Dark Forest', but 'Deaths' End' was a step too far & I gave up about 1/3 of the way through. I may revisit in the next few weeks, but it is not a read that I enjoyed.
第448条评论: I Loved the  sci fi concepts and the expanding effect they had on me. A great series that I thoroughly recommend.
第449条评论: Not a huge sci fi reader (more a fantasy type) but this is one of the best sci fi and overall books I have read.
第450条评论: The trilogy as a whole was a very interesting exploration of the impact of the human race in the cosmos and an exciting tale of the unknown
第451条评论: And excellent trilogy.  Highly recomended
第452条评论: It's great.Just felt that Yun T's fairy tales took a lot of place for the little role they're given afterwards as 'guiding paraboles'.Best Sci Fi trilogy I ever read. A must read! A Chinese view in the Sci Fi world! I recommend!
第453条评论: Good story, can not stop to read it!
第454条评论: great book!
第455条评论: A wonderfully complex story that challenges what we think we know about our world and constructs an alternative beyond our understanding
第456条评论: Good book, not as good as the first two though. Probably could've been half the length, but that's coming from someone who couldn't write his way out of a wet paper bag.
第457条评论: This is a great ending to possibly the best sci fi series ever. It is so comprehensive and well thought out, and the timeline covered is unbelievable. Chock full of plausible science, and characters that are vivid. I hope more of this author is translated into English so I can continue to enjoy his creative mind.
第458条评论: I have read this fiction in Chinese and English.  Every time it gave me a deep thinking in science theories.  The stories not only rely on imagination, but linking with actual science theories. It gave hints on what would look like in our future lives.
第459条评论: An excellent read, I enjoyed every page of it.
第460条评论: You will not regret reading not only this book but the entire trilogy.  The twists and turns in the story are mind bending and always entertaining.
第461条评论: The third book is the best. Everything from the meaning of life (not just on earth) to the endless possibilities of space travel. All woven over millions of years seen through the eyes of one amazing character who represents the best of human nature.
第462条评论: The first book was intriguing enough to interest me to read more. The second book was just plain horrible. This book was definitely the best in the series, but is still very lacking. Overlooking plot holes and inconsistencies you could drive a truck through, the author's extremely sexist views towards women are just too hard to overlook. They all have to be extraordinarily beautiful and feminine. While reading these books you get the feeling that they were written by some horny teenager. With better editing and a more enlightened outlook about women, these books could have been excellent. However, they come across as immature trash.
第463条评论: I don't know how to even explain this book except to say it's great and you must read it.  It is a sci-fi book in the model of the classics of this genre.  It makes you think and look at our world in a different way.  Truly great, please read
第464条评论: After finishing the book, or rather the trilogy, it took me a while just to process the world I'd just been reading about, resulting in a changed perspective on our live here and now. To me, that is the ultimate performance for any science fiction story. Truly remarkable.
第465条评论: Interesting but attempts too much.  The characters are not really developed in a way that you have any interest in them.  Also the fiction requires you to forget what we know of physics and just speculate.  Unfortunately the author doesn't seem to really understand current physical speculation nor quantum physics.  Also it's too long with a lot of filler material that doesn't go anywhere.
第466条评论: The final book in one of the most imaginative science fiction series I have ever read. I find myself going back over it several times to make sure that I don't miss any of the nuances and the creative science that runs through all these books. A fascinating read.
第467条评论: I read a lot of books in all categories. This series of novels is life affirming and eye opening, a game changer. It might not change one's life, but it stands a good chance of rearranging your point of view regarding the meaning of human life and its place in the cosmos.
第468条评论: It's a wonderful book. I read it with great pleasure and excitement as well as the previous two titles. It's this kind of a story that makes you constantly think about it, even when the book is not at your reach.
第469条评论: This is some of the best sci-fi anywhere.  This series ranks up there with Dune, The Expanse, and other greats.  It may ask a little more from the reader than most books, but if you brush up with an overview of even some pop physics like Brian Greene you should be fine.
第470条评论: This book earned all five stars thanks to the creativity, continuity, and quality of writing. I cannot remember the last time I read a book and knew I was going to read it again so soon. Liu Cixin made the best trilogy I have ever read, and it even ended with the best book.
第471条评论: What a story!!!  All three books put me in a unique perspective and adventure.  I enjoyed the personalization and the exploration of the long now in the finale.  My mind is spinning and I know I have to go back and start again.
第472条评论: While not the greatest writing from a dialogue sense this book is great if you liked the first two. It always went it a different direction then what I was thinking which is something I love. If you read the first two and enjoyed them then this is a no brainier for sure.
第473条评论: The best Sci-Fi I have ever read, if you read the two other books as well. This writer is truly the one that has bigger and deeper thoughts than any other Sci-fi writer I have ever read, and believe me, I read some. He boldly goes where no man ... great!
第474条评论: No laser swords or princesses in distress, but thoughtful story arcs spanning time and space illuminating the course of mankind directed by the personalities and decisions of the protagonists.Twists and turns in the plot keep you glued to the pages. Epic like Asimov's foundation.
第475条评论: starts slow, but then lots of great writing.  Awesome conclusion to the Three Body Problem.I've passed the trilogy on and everyone loves it. So imaginative! Incredible multiple stories ongoing through the trilogy.
第476条评论: Great conclusion. Mind bending moments of physics. Plonks along a bit but wraps up the trilogy in a surprising complete circle.
第477条评论: A masterpiece. The trilogy is full of things that terrify and exhilarate. It's a superb piece of storytelling, where the hard science fiction ideas are very elegantly weaved into and made integral to the narrative. And it's an importance piece of storytelling. One that imagines a very plausible scenario of our species losing its collective innocence, and having to come to terms with the cruel reality of how the wider the universe might turn out to be.More people should read these books. They deserve to become very well known.
第478条评论: It's so rare to find sci-fi that balances the science with a good story and adds a sense of wonder, yet this trilogy easily accomplishes that. The third part of the story was my favourite, again, how often do the second and third parts of trilogies fail to live up to the promise of the first? I really enjoyed this series and will definitely read more by this author. by the way, I rarely review books I've read but this trilogy is exceptional!
第479条评论: And honestly i go through a lot! These books are definitely hard sci fi- a lot of really compelling scientific background behind the stories, and it feels like there are at least 10-12 plot points/ ideas that could've been books in themselves (and still been fantastic), but seeing that much creativity and brilliance jam backed into one series is really incredible. I'd recommend this to anyone who loves getting immersed in a really long, expansive universe, and who loves scientific details!
第480条评论: The twists in this trillogy are mindboggling, the timeline unimaginable, the science incredible. Havong read a lot of scifi, this trillogy stands in its own categoryC'est sûr qu'il faut aimer la hard-science pour vraiment apprécier le roman.Et encore, on peut à mon sens, apprécier les capacités imaginatives de liu cixin sans être physicien.
第481条评论: Just staggering. A truly brilliant tour of the universe threaded together by the story of the people who inhabit it. One of those books that makes you think after you’ve finished a chapter.
第482条评论: 'Death's End' is the work of a master storyteller and brilliantly imaginative mind, where Liu plays with Time as if conducting an orchestra. Even more than the first two books in his trilogy, this one was mind-altering for me, with concepts about the nature of Space and civilizations that I had never considered before. Though I hardly ever read science-fiction, and though some of the descriptive passages are too long for my liking, I was still gripped throughout by the narrative and the characters' journeys.
第483条评论: Ive read sci fi for 40 plus years and thought i could not be suprised anymore, how wrong was I. The concepts are like a hammer blow to the brain. Highly recommended to those bored of same old plot lines in 90% of mordern sci fi.3部作を通じて、理論とのつながりを（かろうじて）保ちながら時空を超えた物語を展開していくのはすごいと思います。最終となる本作では壮大になりすぎてツッコミどころ満載ではありますが、よく終わらせたなあというのが率直な感想です。Dieses Buch. Diese Trilogie. Unfassbar. Das Buch schafft es, den zweiten Teil noch mal zu toppen. Was für Ideen. Was für ein wahnsinns Ansatz. Das Buch gehört zum Besten und Größten mit dem sich mein Kopf bisher befassen durfte. Wer sich für abgedrehte Hard-Sci-Fi interessiert, für das Universum, die Mathematik, Dimensionen... der ist hier genau richtig. Ein Problem gibt es aber. Ich bin noch nicht ganz durch und ich fürchte den Moment da es so weit ist. Denn was soll ich danach lesen, was auch nur im Ansatz an diesen Ideenreichtum heranragt? Hat jemand einen Tipp?
第484条评论: A great read filled with adventure and wonderful udeas. Of the three this had the most action and the best story.
第485条评论: The Amazon review system requires 20 words.read it nowread it nowread it nowread it nowread it now
第486条评论: This author has a fantastic imagination and masterful powers of description.  I look forward to reading future works of his.
第487条评论: Apart from LOTR. Life changing, without a word of exaggeration. Takes the mind to places closed off from ordinary imagination and musing.
第488条评论: Excellent conclusion for the trilogy. Goes places I did not imagine. Just typing to get words in so I can submit. Lol
第489条评论: Book #3. Continues to be an interesting story. More details are filled in as we get to traverse the timelines. Get introduced to more people and events. Gave me even more food for thought on some things discussed, which I wont mention here. It's been an engaging read from the beginning, and I am curious how it ultimately plays out (got a little more to go). I figure at this point it is fine to do an early review since if you are looking through reviews then you have likely at least begun the series. Different for sure! I just know overall that I am glad that I have read it, and it was while reading the last book that I learned that there would be a screen adaptation. I am stoked for that; wondering how this will be portrayed.
第490条评论: I truly enjoyed this last part of the Three Body series. Some nice twists and turns. This book comes ighly recommended!
第491条评论: I can honestly say I've never ever seen several of the ideas and plot points used in this book. I was astounded.
第492条评论: I'm out of words. This is so truly epic. The book makes you rethink everything you know about the world.
第493条评论: Better than the first book in the series.  Engrossing and very well written.
第494条评论: The last of the Three Body Problem series. It covers a lot of ground and doesn't miss a thing. It really makes you think.
第495条评论: Best SF series I have read... like Foundation/Dune.... but for some reason almost seems possible that the fictional story could happen to us at any time:)
第496条评论: The third in Cixin's mindblowing series.  If you love sci-fi, you will love this series
第497条评论: Probably the deepest instalment of the Three-Body Problem trilogy and a very satisfying conclusion to the saga. Deeply disturbing too...
第498条评论: Great Sci-fi with many twist, weaker character development.
第499条评论: long winded, but an excellent read, especially for an old and jaded SF reader like myself.
第500条评论: It has been awhile since I have read them, but I believe this exceeds the time and space dimensions of even Asimov's Foundation series. Kudos.
第501条评论: amazing books, troubling ideas. very well crafted universe spanning inconceivable amounts of time. one of the best scifi series I have ever read, and definitely the most immersive world.
第502条评论: Great end to this trilogy.  Highly Recommended!
第503条评论: Shipping: Received in good condition. The box didn't have any padding/fillers inside and the books moved around during shipping. It could've caused damage like it frequently does with book shipping on amazon. Fortunately, I didn't have to experience that.Book Review:From childhood, I've always loved sci-fi stories. Stories about the magnificent future of humanity, and traveling the stars always had a special place in my mind.... I don't think I can ever think about the distant future of humanity with such naivety ever again. This book has forever changed sci-fi for me. The history book-like narration and the dry bleak tone made it so real for me that I was depressed by the time I finished reading it.That doesn't mean it doesn't have flaws which it has many, both in the plot and the characters. Still, it is a milestone in my reading journey.
第504条评论: No drop off in intensity from “The Dark Forest”.Excellent book that is worthy of your time and attention.  Seriously.
第505条评论: I used this product for reading.
第506条评论: Amazing conclusion to the series. I think the second book was just a bit more compelling, but the imagination and attention to detail in Liu's writing is incredible. This is one of the best sci-fi stories I've ever read
第507条评论: A work of amazing creativity. Truly mind expanding stuff, and the writing itself is wonderful. A great end to an epic trilogy.
第508条评论: I read the three books one after the other. I could not stop even though it troubled my spirit. Impactful does not begin to describe this remarkable work.
第509条评论: Great book & a worthy end for the trilogy. I'm a prolific reader of mostly science fiction, and these books rank quite high. They are chock full of mind expanding science, as well as unexpected twists and turns.
第510条评论: I am really in awe of Cixin Liu.  Having read hard science fiction for many years I have never seen a writer with such broad grasp of so many areas of near future science and their social implications.
第511条评论: The implications of dark forest brought forth in the three-body series of books is still messing with my head. I never had any inclination as to how the books would end. I'm still surprised and amazed.
第512条评论: ...mazing. Easily now one of my favorite trilogies. His poetic descriptions flow through my mental perception like a gentle brook. I hope more of his work is translated
第513条评论: First third is just awesome.Second act is ... okThird act is predictable until the epic end.
第514条评论: Cixin Liu is back to seal humanity’s fate with the final instalment in his Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy. While The Three-Body Problem dealt with the discovery of the threat to Earth and The Dark Forest with humanity's attempts to devise a plan against the alien invasion, Death's End takes on the incredibly audacious task to tell us EVERYTHING that happens with humanity after that. And when I say EVERYTHING, I do indeed mean EVERYTHING, until the very heat death of the universe (hence the title by the way). As the most ambitious of the three books, it perhaps comes as no surprise that Death's End is also the weakest instalment in the trilogy. Characters and character development have simply fallen prey to the vastness of the scale here.As a solution to the tremendous timescape of the novel, Liu namely resorts to repeatedly putting the main character in hibernation and then waking her up again. After the impressive ensemble cast in the first novel and the enigmatic Luo Ji in the second one, the main role in Death's End is given to a female physicist, Cheng Xin. Two things immediately strike us about her: she is an amazing human being, but a terrible leader and decision-maker, and her poor judgement twice condemns humanity to annihilation. This draws interesting parallels to the other major female character in the series, Ye Wenjie, who betrays the human race in The Three-Body Problem. Whether this is a coincidence or Cixin Liu actually bears a grudge against women would perhaps be a point up for debate for quite some time.As usual, Liu is at his best when he talks about science and ideas and at his worst when it comes to character development and dialogue. Whether it is a matter of using controlled nuclear explosions to accelerate a spacecraft or employing a “dimensional bomb” to collapse space into two dimensions, Liu’s ideas will invariably blow your mind. No one in the Anglosphere writes this kind of science fiction any more. Well, Kim Stanley Robinson is trying, but the key word here is indeed “trying”.On the other hand, I can hardly agree with the comparisons drawn between Remembrance of Earth's Past and golden classics like Asimov’s Foundation or Clarke’s Space Odyssey: Liu is just too weak at character development for that. It is way too often that his characters appear to be mere plot devices, and nowhere does this feel as strongly as in Death's End. While previous novels offered intriguing, even if incomplete characters like Ye Wenjie and Luo Ji, Death’s End “impresses” with an endless procession of uninteresting and unlikeable cardboard-like figures, Cheng Xin perhaps being the very worst of them. There is one exception to this, the character of Thomas Wade, but his appearance is too short and insignificant to have an effect of note on the overall impression of the novel. Considering that there is a highly anticipated Chinese screen version of The Three-Body Problem in the making (already dubbed to be the “Chinese version of Star Wars”), I am quite curious to see how they will tackle characters and dialogue there—will there be an improvement in this area or will they just dip everything in expensive special effects and forget about it?All this being said, I have just one bone to pick with Liu’s vision of the universe (and the science behind it): everything is just too neat, too ordered, too “Chinese”. All civilisations behave in a certain way. There is just one way to achieve light speed. There is again just one way to hide from the others. Life has a tendency to be a bit messier than that, Mr. Liu, but cudoz for the angle, it’s indeed unique.
第515条评论: First two books are amazing and have great characters.  I would have felt better if the ideas in this book were condensed into a chapter and never written.
第516条评论: There’s Tolkien, and there’s Cixin Liu.
第517条评论: This book spans uncountable miles and years, and it's great how little Cixin Liu tells us. We know next to nothing about the appearance of whole species that play a major role in the plot. We never discover the fate of certain major characters. Things happen that major characters can understand only in part and only by metaphor. Mystery exists in the real world, and Liu allows it to exist in his book. My main complaint about the the text is that, while it tries some of the genre-bending of the first book of the series, by inclusion of three chapters of a children's fairy tale in the main narrative, this text is discussed only briefly by the main characters. The book would have benefitted if it had played a larger role and if we had been witnesses to both failed and successful efforts to decode it. This part of the book and the end both show signs of being rushed.The first book in the series was an easy five stars. This one is more like 4.5 but I'm rounding up.
第518条评论: A little disappointing, but I HAD to finish the series.
第519条评论: “Truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true;Real becomes not-real where the unreal's real.”— Dream of the Red Chamber (1740 – 1791)This quote from the Cao Xuequin and Cheng Weiyuan 18th century Chinese classic novel, “The Dream of the Red Chamber”, may well have been an inspiration for Cixin Liu’s contemporary science fiction trilogy, “Remembrance of Earth’s Past”.The earlier work is a detailed collection of tales about the rise and fall of two branches of wealthy families with multiple characters residing in adjacent compounds within the capital.Similarly, Liu traces the impact of human awareness and growing anxiety about the realization “we are not alone” in the universe and what this knowledge may lead to:• “The Three Body Problem”, the first book (2006), describes in detail the first awareness, nervous communications and reactions between humans and a near-by alien civilization, TriSolar, recognizing the aliens may be technologically more advanced and are headed toward Earth.  The primary characters are Ye Wenji, a Chinese physicist and Wang Miao, a nanotechnologist, with plenty of others rounding out the cast.• “The Dark Forest”, second in the series, (2008) explores how humans try to defend themselves against TriSolar curbs on their activities and growing awareness that there may be other advanced sinister forces leading to various defensive strategies for people to survive in the Universe, or Dark Forest. Again, with multiple characters but a primary focus on a young cosmic sociologist, Luo Ji, appointed one of a defensive group called Wallfacers, and Zhang Beihai, a star fleet commander whose cryptic style may salvage human resistance.The last section, “Death’s End”, published originally in 2010, has similarities to the first two for plot development and characters but the style is quite different – at times a straight-ahead narrative and other times events and thoughts told as a recollection or memoir consistent with the Liu’s trilogy title.As the scope of the story expands beyond Earth and the Solar System, sections of the stories move forward and backward making the narrative more episodic.  The use of “hibernation”, a suspended animation process for long periods of time, also gives the author flexibility to maneuver the story but not without sacrifice.  The pacing at times can be disruptive and tiring to slog through.As with the first two books, there are multiple characters with a focus on the stories of a few: Chen Xin, a female Chinese physicist; Yun Tianming, a star-crossed man contemplating euthanasia; Guan Yifan, an officer from the previous Earth star fleet; Sophon, an intriguing cipher created by TriSolarians.  Certain characters from the first two books make brief appearances.  And the TriSolar civilization continues to make its impact felt.Like the first two books with the three-body visual reality game and the Wallfacer strategies in the second one, this third book has dazzling sections– such as puzzling out the messages deliberately hidden in fairly tales.And fascinating explorations of what a four-dimensional world is like as well as a two-dimensional one sometimes suggested by today’s cosmologists as the effect of falling into a black hole.Throughout the plot flow there is a sense of the uneasy alliance between the military and science communities to promote the goals of humanity as recently described in Neil deGrasse Tyson’s and Avis Lange’s recent collaboration, “Accessory to War: the Unspoken Alliance between Astrophysics and the Military”.The descriptions of other interstellar experience such as travel and life on other planets are imaginatively conceived.  Some sections can be easily scanned without losing the plot or characters. You just need patience and awareness you are in this for the long haul if you want to enjoy Liu's flights of fancy.(Here are links to my Amazon reviews for the first two Liu books in this trilogy, the Tyson/Lang collaboration and discussions of the impact of black holes:“The Three Body Problem”: https://www.amazon.com/review/R1O5W5NXH00K8O/ref=cm_cr_srp_d_rdp_perm?ie=UTF8“The Dark Forest”: https://www.amazon.com/review/R7YHTFJX43971/ref=cm_cr_srp_d_rdp_perm?ie=UTF8“Accessory to War: the Unspoken Alliance between Astrophysics and the Military”: https://www.amazon.com/review/R3P0IC9HUUSVY2/ref=cm_cr_srp_d_rdp_perm?ie=UTF8"Ultimate Physics" article collection in "Scientific American" magazine: https://www.amazon.com/gp/review/R2L9R6OLCSFQUM?ref=pf_ov_at_pdctrvw_srp)
第520条评论: 4.5 starsThis is the third book in the "Remembrance of Things Past " science fiction trilogy by Cixin Liu.  SPOILER ALERT  /  SPOILER ALERT  /  SPOILER ALERTIf you haven't read the first two books in the trilogy this review will contain spoilers.Each book in the trilogy has an intricate multilayered plot, numerous scientific concepts (real and made up), and a slew of interesting, complex characters. However, in a nutshell.....In book one - The Three-Body Problem - extraterrestrial beings called Trisolarans, from the planet Trisolaris, learn about the existence of Earth. Trisolaris is a volatile planet with hostile living conditions so the Trisolarans announce their intention of sending a fleet to take over Earth, a trip that will take 400 years.By the end of book two - The Dark Forest -  both humans and Trisolarans have learned that advanced civilizations in the universe will wipe out any planet that shows signs of intelligent life (presumably for self-protection). So a human scientist's threat - and demonstrated ability - to broadcast the location of Trisolaris to the cosmos convinces the approaching Trisolaran fleet to alter its course....away from us. However there's a fly in the ointment: once the 'destroyers' have wiped out Trisolaris they'll inevitably discover Earth - which is very close (in astronomical terms).As the third book - Death's End - opens, the first Trisolaran fleet has moved away from the Solar System and Earth is in the 'Deterrence Era.' That is, the alien invasion has been deterred by the above mentioned threat of exposure. Humans are doing pretty well: governments are democratic; Trisolaran knowledge - shared with Earth - has led to remarkable advances in science and technology; human habitats and industries have spread through the Solar System; people have comfortable homes, fashionable clothes, and graceful manners; etc. Everything seems hunky dory.For reasons explained in a previous book, four spaceships have left the Solar System. The first two ships harbor 'escapists'; people who - following a battle with mysterious 'droplets' - 'escaped' out into the galaxy.....which is forbidden by law. The other two ships are in pursuit, trying to catch the runaways. At one point, some of these ships encounter a four-dimensional fragment of space that has remarkable properties.Meanwhile, back on Earth humans remain on alert. Though the Trisolarans seem to be behaving themselves they're still potential hostiles. Thus a human scientist, called the 'Swordholder', is in charge of a 'doomsday button' that will immediately broadcast the location of Trisolaris if the aliens mount a surprise attack. The question is....will the Swordholder have the guts to push the button, knowing it will eventually lead to Earth's destruction. I liked the suspense in the book so I don't want to give too much away. Let's just say - somehow or other - the location of Trisolaris is exposed.After Trisolaris is unmasked humans fear total annihilation. So Earth scientists propose potential survival strategies: one plan is to hide all humans in structures behind the four outer planets; another scheme is to slow down the speed of light so the Solar System becomes 'invisible' to the rest of the universe. This would prohibit space travel forever. (Blech!). Finally, a third (illegal) proposal involves building spacecraft that can travel at the speed of light, so people can flee to other star systems. (Yay!)It's impossible to say much about the various story developments without spoilers. I will say that the trilogy extends over many centuries but - because humans can 'hibernate' - the main characters don't die. They 'go to sleep' and 'wake up' (again and again) as needed. This lends a nice continuity to the storyline.Though I might have done things differently than some characters in the book I enjoyed the story immensely.....until the last part. The end of the book is flat, uninspiring, and scientifically impossible (in my opinion). The finale reminded me of the last episodes of the TV series' "Lost" and "Battlestar Galactica"....fine shows with disappointing conclusions.The entire trilogy is good but book three is especially ambitious, ingenious, and impressive. Moreover it's probably one of very few science fiction books to contain three original - and fantastic - fairy tales! LOL.Cixin Liu is an excellent writer with a spectacular imagination and a wonderful ability to incorporate scientific concepts into his stories. The time and effort the author must have devoted to researching and writing this trilogy boggles my mind. And the translation from Chinese to English by Ken Liu is skillful and smooth. Good job all around!I can't recommend this trilogy highly enough to fans of science fiction. Read it. You won't be disappointed.
第521条评论: Story drifts all over the place. Hard to synch with other stories in previous two books. Meandered and meandered to a disappointing ending.Not worth the read. First two were enough.
第522条评论: Hey, whatever suits your taste. You get a free sample on Kindle so I can't complain. I don't like this at all. Artificial plotting and terrible writing (although it is a translation).
第523条评论: Sorry! I actually love the book. But it was delivered in a box and left in the rain. Just enough damage to be readable, but kind of wrinkled. :(
第524条评论: It was a a difficult trilogy to get through. However, sometimes you have to dig in and work to get something from life. This is one of those occasions. The final hours of the book were quite exciting and well worth persevering for. It’s going to make good TV. As a reader I make my own images and the characters in this story came together well. There are difficult patches - of technical or mathematical concepts but even then it fits together very well. I feel an achievement in reading this. It feels like reaching the top of a hill . However from that viewpoint I can see so many other books or hills to climb it’s daunting yet needs to be done !
第525条评论: Wonderful page turning thriller of a series. If you like classic Sci Fi in the style of Asimov and Clarke, you will love this. It is both mindbending and breathtaking in its breadth of imagination. The series has not been matched since Asimov's foundation in my opinion. Far and away the best Sci-fi book (well, trilogy) that I have read for many many years. The three body problem gives an insight into a Chinese view of the world which rapidly grows into a view of the universe. This then is expanded through the dark forest and comes to a satisfying endgame in this volume 'Death's end'Vielleicht war meine Erwartungshaltung zu hoch, aber andere Rezensenten sehen das genauso: Mit "Death's End" dümpelt die vielversprechende Trilogie zu einem unbefriedigendem Abschluss, deren erster Band "The Three-Body Problem" 2015 verdient den Hugo gewonnen hatte. Hauptproblem scheinen mir dabei, bis auf zwei Ausnahmen, die Charaktere zu sein, die so unscheinbar geraten sind, als ob der Autor sie nur aus dem Orbit beobachtet hätte. Aber auch die Handlungsentwicklung ist enttäuschend. Wie so oft, wenn Science Fiction in eine Äonen entfernte Zukunft blickt, weicht fundierte Spekulation immer mehr esoterischen Szenarien. Berühmtestes Beispiel dafür ist sicher das Ende von Kubricks "2001: Odyssee im Weltraum" (nach der Novelle von Arthur C. Clarke).Im Zentrum des dritten Bandes steht Cheng Xin, eine junge Wissenschaftlerin, die zwar begabt und beliebt ist, aber eher zufällig die Geschicke der Menschheit beeinflusst. Durch lange Kälteschlafphasen erlebt sie die entscheidenden Kapitel der Geschichte und ist nebenbei noch in eine tatsächlich kosmische Romanze verstrickt. Sie ist für mich die einzige Identifikationsfigur. Allerdings strotzt der Band nur so vor nüchterner Exposition, nicht nur in den kurzen essayistischen Zwischenkapiteln, sondern auch in den übrigen Abschnitten.Der erste Teil wirkt fast wie eine Resteverwertung. Besonders irritiert hat mich der Prolog, der 1453 den Fall Konstantinopels schildert, mit einer kleinen magischen Ausschmückung, die wohl eine Vorahnung auf zu entdeckende fünfdimensionale Phänomene geben soll. Dann geht es in die frühen Jahre der Trisolar-Krise, mit der Beschreibung eines parallelen Projekts zum Wallfacer-Programm (Wallfacer Luo Ji aus "The Dark Forest" taucht noch ab und an auf), mit dem aberwitzigen Ziel, der trisolarischen Invasionsflotte das gefrorenes Gehirn des todkranken Yun Tianming entgegenzuschicken - diese Figur ist die zweite, die etwas plastischer wirkt, verschwindet aber zu schnell aus der Erzählung.************ ES FOLGEN KLEINE SPOILER *************************Im zweiten Drittel versucht dieser Yun Tianming, von den Trisolarern tatsächlich reanimiert, über ein dreiteiliges Märchen der Menschheit hinter dem Rücken der Trisolarer Informationen zukommen zu lassen. Das ist tatsächlich eine hübsche, gut ausgeführte Idee. Die sich dahinter verbergenden technischen Konzepte sind allerdings teilweise haarsträubend (insbesondere die Konvertierung von dreidimensionalen in zweidimensionale Objekte). Aus der Entschlüsselung des Märchens resultiert dann die "Bunkerphase", in der sich ein Großteil der Menschheit in Habitaten im Schatten der Großplaneten (Jupiter, Saturn etc.) vor der drohenden Zerstörung der Sonne zu verstecken versucht. Wie viele der Hard SF zuzuordnende Autoren unterschätzt m.E. Liu hier die gesellschaftlichen Probleme und überschätzt die technischen Möglichkeiten. Eine realistischere (wenngleich dramaturgisch auch nicht bessere) Darstellung einer solchen Flucht ins Weltall kann man in Neal Stephensons "Seveneves" nachlesen. Die Idee eines Teilchenbeschleunigers im Orbit um die Sonne ist allerdings nett.Danach wurde es mir dann endgültig zu bunt, mit der Manipulation von physikalischen Konstanten (Verringerung der Lichtgeschwindigkeit), relativistischen Reisen durch die Äonen und außerdimensionalen Blasen, die Douglas Adams' "Restaurant am Ende des Universums" Konkurrenz machen könnten.Dass am Ende dann die kosmische Romanze auch noch in den Weiten des Universums verpufft, passt zum Gesamteindruck. Die Übersetzung ins Englische ist übrigens sehr gut gelungen, die Kindle-Ausgabe tadellos formatiert. Zum Glück hat sich Cixin Liu  mit den beiden Vorgängern bei mir bereits fest etabliert - gerade habe ich zum fairen Preis seinen Kurzgeschichtenband The Wandering Earth erstanden und bin schon sehr gespannt...
第526条评论: Nice homage in the second half of the book to Space Odyssey 2001. Some great ideas but heavily weighted to aspects of the story that bear almost no fruit. Eg the three fair stories that hold clues to the tech that Trisolarians have. Far too indulgent by half when the thrust of the story, the fight for survival of the world was thwarted half way through the book. This wasn’t just brave, it was utterly futile. If you were going to arrive at this point that’s fine, but make it the end of the story, not a foot note. Let’s have a climax followed the termination of a story with characters that we actually grew to care about fighting for their survival instead people who appear to be randomly cajoled, frozen, unfrozen.Was also left wondering what the whole tale was about. Relations between East and West? A commentary on the futility of war? There are always bigger fish?The characters weren’t great either. Pretty two dimensional and charicature like.Shame because as I say there were some great ideas. There were too many bad decisions made in book 2 to make it believable ie the idea that sword bearers should be given the keys to the future of mankind by a global council without any discernible good reason.  …… and so on……
第527条评论: The first and third books are the best in the trilogy, but, honestly, it could be shortened considerably...The second book is crap. Not sure if it's the translation.Anyways, I don't get why the books are so popular, I found the trilogy mostly an overly long plod, re-visiting the same themes again and again and again, interspersed with a few really good parts.Some, but not all of the characters are two dimensional.
第528条评论: As with the prior two volumes this is the story of humanity as a relative fledgling in a big and busy Universe.A few key people find themselves as consistent actors through an aeons-spanning history, and we see their vulnerability observing the consequences of their decisions.  Human nature is explored deeply; decision making becoming paralysed in the face of what the commune considers acceptable, the danger of comfort, complacency, the few 'sane voices' being ignored by many ignorant, the failure or ambition of one person leading to the doom of many.  And within it is an ebb between being civilised or returning to revenge and capital punishment.I don't know how plausible the science really is but as illustrated it is mind-boggling, however there are regular moments which make you question the price of progress, or whether progress really means anything at all.It is without a doubt an exceptional story however for me it fizzled out at the end; the scope becomes small, a lot of potential questions unanswered, subplots unexplored.  Plausible, believable?  Yes.  Satisfying?  Not really.  It's reminiscent of a "and they wall woke up..."
第529条评论: It’s years since I’ve read anything as powerful as this trilogy.I’m not a sci-fi fan to the same extent as many of the reviewers here but this held my attention. It has caused me a few sleepless nights, partially because I couldn’t put it down but then, when I did, because my brain could not switch off and find sleep given the enormity of it all.It has certainly awakened an interest in Physics that my teachers at school failed to inspire in me. I now understand why the likes of Brian Cox get so excited about Physics and the universe, they can see something that most of us are blind to. Cixin Liu has opened my eyes, I’m still trying to come to terms with what I can now see.
第530条评论: Really enjoyed this whole trilogy. It's unusual and clunky in places, but on the whole it's an epic saga and well worth the praise.
第531条评论: I enjoyed the great imagination of the author in this the final part of the trilogy. I had just finished the 8th book of the Expanse series. That series I found more engrossing than this trilogy. It may be because this is culturally strange to me as I found some of the constructs hard to get my head around and, therefore, I struggled with some portions of the novel. Some of the explanations are very drawn out which I found tiresome. On the other hand there are some great ideas expressed which were very interesting.Die Trilogie ist schwer in Wort zu fassen. Wer sich von den chinesischen Namen nicht abschrecken lässt, wird auf eine fantastische, einzigartige Reise mitgenommen, bei der das Science vor der Fiction kommt. Mehr in Richtung "The Expanse" als "Star Trek", aber mit Konzepten und Ideen, die viel weiter durchdacht und entwickelt sind. Die Trilogie steigert sich von Buch zu Buch. Immer, wenn man denkt, so wird es weiter gehen, dann kommt es anders.
第532条评论: There are many fine reviews of this book and I will keep my comments focused. First, I strongly commend Mr. Liu for his knowledge, learning, and vision. He cites Edgar Allan Poe, Ivan Turgenev and the movie, Gone with the Wind, among other citations, has an impressive intellectual scope. My knowledge of Chinese cultural figures is largely limited to Confucius so I must concede the breadth of his Mr. Liu's intellectual interests. Secondly, he weaves scientific theories of quantum mechanics, relativity, and Fermi's paradox into a complex and lengthy story of humanity's encounter with other intelligent civilizations in a dangerous universe. Some knowledge of these theories will enhance the reader's appreciation of the book. Mr. Liu skillfully weaves these scientific theories into his story and places the book firmly into the genre of science fiction, while at the same time introducing philosophy, political science, social anthropology, and maybe even an occassional little bit of a love story with his principal protagonist, Cheng Xin, into the mix.So why did I give the book only 2 stars? Simply put, I found the book too ambitious. It covered too many topics and at times lost dramatic focus. Yes, Cheng Xin was the swordholder, but, immediately upon assuming the role of protector of mankind, she was challenged and, in her mind, made the wrong decision that led to threats and damage to much of mankind. This event could have been the subject of an entire book, but it was only part of the series of events that swept Cheng Xin along.This is my principal criticism of the book. It could have been 2 or 3 books directed to a single or limited number of subjects, but instead ti wanders from place to place with poor Cheng Xin carried along from situation to situation.  The three fantasies that Yun Tianming develops in the middle of the book cleverly incite the imagination and ultimately play a part in explaining the Death's End part of the book. These fantasies were well done.The Death's End raises the question in physics whether there is enough mass in the universe to cause everything to collapse upon itself and lead to a second Big Bang, a hot death, or whether there is too little mass leading to the universe expanding eternally and dying a cold death.  Cheng Xin was left to ponder this fate at the book's end.The book rewards many and it may reward you. My paperback was 721 pages and I read them all. I found Mr. Liu's knowledge and intellectual scope impressive, but, in my opinion, the book should have been 2 or 3 books each with a tighter focus.
第533条评论: I read all 3 books in this trilogy and I am just amazed at the quality of the translations and the other worldly imagination of the author!  Every time I thought I knew what was going to happen in the story— something completely unexpected took. The author’s perspective is really unique and his apparent knowledge of physics was impressive. Made me really question the popular view of “ET”;  I hope his view of the Dark Forest universe isn’t true. ;)
第534条评论: The scope of this novel is greater than anything I've ever read before and crosses space, time, and dimensions. I sometimes got lost in the science and had to work to keep moving forward but I had to give it five stars just because my mind was expanded due to the ideas put forward. It is a great example of what speculative fiction can do.
第535条评论: Don’t spoil it for yourself, please read, so good I wish I could read it again for the first time.
第536条评论: Every Sci-Fi reader must read this trilogy.  I agree with other reviewers that the story has flaws, and I would have appreciated a more "satisfying" ending.  But throughout my reading, I was struck by two overpowering aspects of the books: (1) I have never read anything like this and continually felt  like I was reading something ground-breakingly new and original; and (2) the truly monumental scope of the story is awe- inspiring; the the detailed world and story are Tolkeinesque.  The trilogy is an AMAZING accomplishment..
第537条评论: Very few books can compare with Death's End.  The closest books are The Dark Forest and Three Body Problem.  I once saw a statement regarding Death's End which stated (paraphrasing) ... "you'll be surprised, you ever thought Three Body Problem was an amazing book." I scoffed at such an outlandish notion.  Then I read Death's End.  That person was correct.
第538条评论: If you liked the Three Body Problem & Dark Forest, you will be amazed by Death’s End. Cixin Liu’s imagination is just impressive. This is by far my favorite book in the series.
第539条评论: This review is for the entire series.  I read this series over a year ago.  Few books have continued to linger in my mind like this series.  It is definitely hardcore science fiction.  But, it is also a bit on the scary side.  And, incredibly thought provoking.  If I didn't have a mountain of books yet to read, I'd re-read this series now.  Truly one of the best series I have ever read.
第540条评论: In Death's End, there is a tea ceremony in which rituals are performed in such meticulous detail that the participants don't get a single sip of tea for hours.  This ceremony is the perfect metaphor for Death's End, a book in which you must suffer through the exposition of conjectures about physics that are rendered in excruciating detail before you get to the next little bit of character or plot development.  Not that the ideas are without interest, though some are downright absurd or have a fairy-tale quality to them.  It's just that the author elaborates upon each of them to the point where it becomes tedious to go on, and then skips right ahead to the next big idea without resolving anything.  Although there are some interesting characters in the book, the author insists on focusing on the least interesting of them, a feckless woman named Cheng Xin who seems less like a real character than an allegorical representation of the will of the collective.  Cixin Liu is willing to pursue his scientific speculations to any lengths, including trying to describe the indescribable such as higher and lower dimensions of being, but he seems unwilling to answer any of the basic, obvious questions about his characters.  For example, after three thick books, we never learn very much about the Tri-Solarans, not even what they look like, and certainly not how they were able to learn to manipulate the universal laws of physics coming from an environment which challenged their very existence on a regular basis.If you want to read  endless speculations about other dimensions, and about the possibility of intelligent civilizations that can alter the very universal laws of physics, then this book is for you.  If you are the type of reader who likes a story with plot and character development, you will probably be as disappointed as I I was. Cixin Liu simply jumps from one point to the next, leaving the book's ending to literally fizzle out.P.S. You may be wondering why I finished the book if I found it so tedious.  The answer is that it turned out to be perfect bedtime reading.  After reading in bed for a few minutes I found that I was no longer following what I was reading. I dropped the book, and was asleep within seconds.  I was not even awake enough to mark my place, and had to scan the book in the morning to get to the part where I remembered what was happening.  I have not slept nearly as well since finishing this book.
第541条评论: The trilogy is fantastic!! I recommend it to any sifi fan. There must be life out there somewhere? Maybe someday?
第542条评论: Excellent ideas, but kind of lost me in the final act. Dark and grim a lot of the time though
第543条评论: There is no better way to end an excellent trilogy. It kept me trapped from beginning until the end.
第544条评论: All of the stories at virtually no cost.  Text is fine.  Wish it had page numbers
第545条评论: Beautiful culmination to an incredible sci-fi opera. Got a few slow spots, but well worth the time.
第546条评论: Amazing story. The scale is just mind blowing. Read it and it'll be worth your time.
第547条评论: First rate story
第548条评论: Liu is the Chinese Asimov. Excellent read to round out an amazing trilogy!
第549条评论: Anazing conclusion of an astonishing trilogy.
第550条评论: Fitting end to possibly the best science fiction series I've ever read.
第551条评论: IMO the best of the three.Enjoyable read and a satisfying close.
第552条评论: i loved this trilogy. i finished all 3 in a roll. quite a ride. i m glad people get to ready this in English now.
第553条评论: I must say I am thrilled by the whole story. Also there are two brilliant metaphoric short stories, one at the beginning and the other in the middle which tie the whole story together.
第554条评论: Great book.Hope Holywood can make movie series of the books.
第555条评论: Five Starts!! My most favorite hard science fiction book! It has changed my view of the whole universe.
第556条评论: This was such an amazing science fiction series.For me,  it's broad sweep will make hard to read other science fiction with lesser ambitions.
第557条评论: I hope solar human can be better then this!!!! Or it will to be the end of us! Hehehe...
第558条评论: Liu is just brilliant. He totally blows my mind.
第559条评论: Could not put it down
第560条评论: The best of the trilogy.
第561条评论: Loved first two books. First half of the book was ok, had interesting seeds. But second part of the book is dull. Ending is boring and dull, I wish I didn't spent any time on it. So many better opportunities missed...
第562条评论: Being a fan of the Three Body Problem and the Dark Forest, I anxiously waited for the conclusion of the trilogy.I bought is the day it came out and finished it quickly.Unfortunately I was quite disappointed.Some spoilers ahead!It felt that the author felt to finish the trilogy out of obligation, not that he really enjoyed the plot he created initially.The first part of the book was ok, but gradually it became more depressive and chaotic.The main character, Cheng Xin, is a rather unsympathetic person , very one-dimensional, comparing to Ye Wenjie and  Luo Ji from the first and the second book. While somewhat brilliant, she makes big mistakes which cost dearly the humanity. The author tried to explain the motivation behind her actions but it wasn't too convincing. The plot also had  few unexpected and unjustified, in my opinion. twists. E.g Sophon apparently becomes a person or, rather, robotic-person (?!). Maybe there is some poetic allegory in that, but I missed it.The end of the book is particularly lame. I barely kept track of continuity because Cheng Xin took several hibernations plus some physical phenomena caused speeding of time. It felt really as a hard work to finish reading the book. The concept of mini-universes also felt not thought out well.Said that, there are few intriguing ideas in the book, like creating a bubble in space where speed of light is way lower. However, implications of this were not explored fully by the author.In conclusion, first part of the book was ok, 4 out of 5, but the second half felt rushed and was really disappointing.
第563条评论: The breadth and scope of the author’s imagination is staggering. He takes the reader to places that completely blow your mind, but explains them in casual langauge that makes them seem completely plausible. This is a very readable book despite the heavy theoretical science. The translation is much better than the second in the series, in that it expresses the beauty of the original and flows much better.There is a Russian doll quality to all three books in this series. There are stories within stories within stories. And yet the coming and going and reemergence of characters works in the vastness of the author’s universe. This is a truly great work and must be read as a trilogy. An amazing accomplishment.
第564条评论: I've been reading science fiction for over 60 years. I cannot remember ever reading a story with so many original ideas, any one of which could have been the foundation (heh) for a separate story.This book does not have any development of its characters, and does not much turn on interpersonal conflicts or any kind of action/adventure. From that perspective, it is not particularly good, and there are times when the characters behave in a way that is not at all believable. It is not well written, although I can't tell if that is just the result of a poor translation (doubtful), cultural differences (possibly), or simply not great writing.But that matters not. This book, together with its two predecessors in the series, is an instant classic, which you shouldn't miss.
第565条评论: I'm writing this on a phone so I'll be brief.  The trilogy as a whole is like if Asimov's foundation had taken its masterful use of human nature to predict how civilization would act far into the future, and added wonderful beautiful characters along the way that would persist in their impact and make you feel the pain of their choices and burdens.  As for this book in particular, my favorite was the second book but this one is still wonderful.  Without any spoilers the entire book is a magnificent journey of curiosity as the story unfolds and the ending, at least for me, was equal parts beautiful, insightful, poignant and yet slightly sad.  My life has been improved for having read this trilogy and I will be grateful to the author for his gift.
第566条评论: The third and final book in the The Body Problem trilogy did not disappoint, even if it felt like it was never going to end.The ideas in this book are creative though many are based on existing theories.I'm not sure if I can recommend them to anyone unless you like autonomy and physics.I'm glad I read these. I'm also very glad to be done with them.
第567条评论: One of the best sci-fi sagas I have read! Yes, the characters are a bit flat (as pointed out by others) but the story is grand and imaginative. On par with Hyperion, I’d say.  I was surprised by the end. It felt a bit rushed and disconnected from the rest for my taste. Regardless, it could not spoil the overall experience for me. Still one of the most inspiring pieces I have read in a while.
第568条评论: Well, I like my scifi to have some relation to actual science. This does. I don't want to give much away but this is a fun ride on the timespace continuum. Not too many books you read will invoke string theory as a plot device. :D The ending is dark but satisfying and leaves room for more to come, though I'm not sure that's the plan here. This is the third book in the trilogy and will make little to no sense if you haven't read the other two first. Sure hope he writes more, and would love to see this as a two part movie.
第569条评论: I thought the first book in this series was super interesting but a little challenging to follow. Then I though the second book was BRILLIANT!  So I was really looking forward to the finale. However, I felt lost most of the time and by the time I got to the last 1/3 I was just ready for it to be over. There were some good parts but maybe this series should have ended after the second book.Crazy smart and creative overall story though.
第570条评论: I enjoyed this trilogy much more than I anticipated. I'd heard about the TBP, and yes it's right in the hard sci-fi genre I love so much, but this was such a unique and satisfying story. I was planning to read more of his work but I need to pause, my expectations are now too high. What do I follow this up with, is now my quandary.
第571条评论: Artfully written, well-plotted, and suspenseful.  It has been a long time since I have read truly original science fiction of this quality.  Cixin Liu belongs on the same bookshelf as Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein and Dick.  I really enjoyed this book, and the other two in the trilogy.  This volume will stand alone, for those fearful of commitment.
第572条评论: Loved all the fundamental physics that got woven in to this last one of the three. Very creative imagination and suspense.
第573条评论: I was so disappointed... that the series had to end. I wish we had 12 more books.
第574条评论: This was a great book! Cixin Liu's trilogy is an excellent read for science fiction fans. I have rarely come across a series that is so wide in scope and addresses many contemporary social issues and timeless philosophical or existential questions. This was a satisfying end to what was a great beginning with the Three Body Problem.
第575条评论: This is one of the best books I have read in my life. Although I don’t understand why there could not be a happy end, the imagination of the autor is breathtaking and I understand he had a few ideas left to explore in this book at the end.
第576条评论: Mind was blown time and time again throughout this series, and this installment was no exception. I don’t know that I feel satisfied with the ending, but I sense this was the authors original intent. Recommend it very highly to all hard sci-fi fans.
第577条评论: One of my favorite science fiction novels.  Up there with Olaf Stapleton and Stanislaw Lem.  If you are attracted to highly intelligent and thoughtful science fiction, do not miss this trilogy.  All three are worth reading, thought the 1st and last are the best because they have no implasible elements, otherwise know as idiot plot elements.
第578条评论: Good SciFi; but, not as good as Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov. Sometimes the physics got a little too involved.
第579条评论: This book is the culmination of an epic story that is truly awesome. I can see why Cixin Liu us so celebrated in China. I would recommend this book to anyone that likes stories about space, the universe, science, and the human experience. It is also a very humbling tale...a good virtue to consider in life.
第580条评论: While it is still a great read, it feels like a let down compared to Dark Forest and 3 Body. I found myself constantly advancing complete pages that did not seem to advance the plot
第581条评论: This book is great!  One of the best series I've read in years.
第582条评论: The first two books were truly unique, unlike any sci-fi books I have ever read. They were full of original ideas on the nature of the universe, intelligent civilizations, alternative philosophies. But what I especially enjoyed about the series, was the writer incorporating a lot of hard science into the narrative, including Einstein's theory of relativity, and quantum physics. Being a physics student in university, this was truly interesting.The third book, started in similar fashion, with a great amount of flashback into the first two books, but later inexplicably morphed into a star-crossed space love story.  More disappointing was the previous unique and refreshing application of physics into the storyline became completly nonsensical, warning spoiler alert. For example, a supposed "higher intelligence civilization" lowly and bored office worker whose job was to scan the universe and look for solar systems to destroy, ships with light speed travel, violating the laws of physics, turning a  three dimensional object into two dimensions, yet the surface area taken up by the two-dimensional projection is finite, and an alien robot that transforms into a killer Samurai, really? amongst many other ideas. I began to anticipate time travel by the protagonist to go back and meet a lover, which didn't happen, but might as well have. A truly disappointing end to what is otherwise a refreshingly, unique story.
第583条评论: Amazing. Grand ideas at a magnificent scale crossing dimensions and spanning across the cosmos, intricately woven into imaginable scenes.Through a transcendent story, the author journeys with us to the boundaries of imagination. I was glued from the start to finish, dreaming of every scene painted by the Liu’s exquisite detail.A fantastic conclusion to a tale that inspires through its boundary pushing concepts, its larger-than-life story, and Liu’s knack to keep the reader thinking. It is truly a great book ina great trilogy.I REALLY love this book!
第584条评论: I read the first two, breezed through the Three Body Problem and enjoyed it. I really liked the Dark Forest too. I liked the fact that there was some general science to back up the fiction (although the accuracy of it I can't attest to). Most of it was explained reasonably enough that I could get the theory and see what the author was trying to do. That being said I found the third entry to be a real slog. Some of the stuff get's pretty dry with the explaining of why what's happening makes sense from a technical standpoint. Well thought out but this one more than the other two seemed to just get bogged down. It was the only one where I really felt like it was a 602 page book. The last 100-150 pages I was really forcing myself to sit down and get through it.I like the closure and the overall story that's why it get's three stars but it just didn't hold my attention like the first two.El argumento o línea argumental me pareció un poco débil, muy rollero, apenas un pretexto para presentar una serie de ideas y conceptos, estos sí, brillantes e imaginativos.Aunque el ritmo literario es un poco disparejo por la  falta de una línea argumental, la lectura es bastante satisfactoria (sobre todo para los que nos gusta la CF tipo hard).Como usa muchos conceptos ya expuestos en sus dos libros anteriores, es recomendable haberlos leído, pero no necesario: creo que es una buena aventura adentrarse a su lectura sin conocer el argumento de la trilogía (que en este libro pierde peso).
第585条评论: I read the original chinese version several years ago, and I just read  this English version. Translated very well, greatly kept the original artistic conception. This is my favorite set of science fiction. It opened a new door for me.
第586条评论: "Death's End" close the trilogy "The three body problem" with a golden key. It's a genuine hard Sci-Fi written by an engineer with profound knowledge of physics.Black holes, gravitational waves, multiverses, interstellar travel, hibernation, multidimensional space, time dilation, exoplanets, extraterrestrial civilizations, lightspeed travel, fusion engines, curvature engines, and much more are incorporated naturally in the story.But the more interesting issue is how humans will behave when threatened by an extraterrestrial invasion and the solutions searched to survive. Programs and specifics organization are created to deal with the probable aniquilation of humanity.
第587条评论: Reading this as a standalone, without reading the first two volumes (The Three Body Problem / The Dark Forest) of the trilogy will leave you confused and dissatisfied. The trilogy must be read in its entirety to absorb, understand and engage fully with the scope and depth of Liu's characters and universe. Fantastic, to a degree, but entirely believable with acceptance of the basic premise that other civilizations exist in the universe. So accurate in it's portrayal of changing human nature and philosophy, it's an epic adventure and story of small civilizations within an unimaginably gigantic universe. But be warned - it requires perseverance, a certain emotional detachment and occasional leaps of faith to complete the journey. My new favourite book(s) by my new favourite author.Grandioso, ficção cientiíica de alto nivel, que desafia e apaixona o leitor. A trilogia merece estar, ao lado de livros como "2001" e  "Encontro com Rama", na prateleira das obras universais.
第588条评论: It’s very hard to write a 3 book series and maintain the wonder and amazement of book 1 on to the end but this comes as close as you’ll get.  Having said that this last book is still brilliant but maybe not quite up to the first 2 parts.The first half of book 3 jumps around quite a bit, perhaps trying to wrap up loose ends, having said that the last 1/3 is as good as the first book and the ending will bring tears of both joy and sadness, I absolutely loved it and will have a look at his other titles!
第589条评论: Wonderful Science Fiction.  I almost didn't buy it when I saw the recommendation by Obama on the front cover but I figured he was too dumb to read it and this was just marketing.Dopo il primo volume della serie, "The Three-Body Problem" ("San ti" nell'originale cinese) che ha sorpreso piacevolmente per l'inventiva, la serietà dell'impianto scientifico e la capacità di tenere desta l'attenzione del lettore, e il secondo geniale episodio basato sulla teoria della "Foresta oscura", "The Dark Forest", appunto ("San ti: Heian senlin"), arriva finalmente in Occidente, dopo un'attesa di 6 anni, l'ultimo romanzo della trilogia dei "tre corpi" di Liu Cixin, "Death's End". Il titolo inglese vuole in modo elegante dare il senso dell'originale "San ti: Sishen yongsheng" (La Morte è immortale), ma forse sarebbe bastato adeguarsi a quel "Dead End" (Senza vie d'uscita) suggerito nell'edizione cinese che rende benissimo le atmosfere angosciose del romanzo. La traduzione inglese di Ken Liu, che già si era occupato del primo volume (il secondo è stato invece tradotto da Joel Martinsen), lascia a volte un po' a desiderare per il tentativo, spesso malriuscito, di rendere accessibili al lettore talune particolarità linguistiche dell'originale: ad esempio, la scelta di riportare nel testo in caratteri cinesi e senza trascrizione il cognome di due dei personaggi sembra uno snobismo del tutto inutile, oltre che incongruo e incomprensibile.A parte questo, la prosa di Liu scorre come sempre potente e immaginifica, e il lavoro del suo omonimo traduttore tende a non sovrapporsi a quello dell'autore, cosa che personalmente gradisco sempre molto. Le note dolenti vengono però dalla trama che, dopo una tensione tenuta desta con continue trovate, docce fredde, soluzioni brillanti e confronti tra personaggi affascinanti, si "siede" nel finale, dove Liu Cixin sembra quasi incapace di trovare il guizzo geniale per una ricomposizione in termini soddisfacenti e razionali (!) delle problematiche da lui stesso innescate: il ricorso ad un espediente già visto (un vortice temporale) per trovare comunque una conclusione lascia certamente insoddisfatto il lettore più smaliziato ed esigente.Per il resto è indubbio che la lettura del romanzo costituisca un obbligo per chi ha già goduto degli altri due episodi; più in generale, va detto che la trilogia non può mancare assolutamente nella biblioteca dell'appassionato, si spera anche in quella traduzione italiana che ancora non si vede all'orizzonte.
第590条评论: Quite a lot of content in the book went over my head but still an amazing read from begining. This has been my first science fiction series and it has been absolutely delightful.
第591条评论: Dark in places but worth sticking with. Huge imagination and scenarios.
第592条评论: An epic end to an epic trilogy, Death's End takes place over tens of millions of years as humans deal with their place in the dark forest... The protagonist, Cheng Xin, is improbably thrown into a number of situations wherein she determines the fate of humanity.Liu is a great thinker and can theorize incredible solutions to problems like travelling at light speed, deterring a technologically superior enemy, and annihilating worlds, but he's not very good at putting two people together and making them have a natural conversation. Again and again, the trilogy's flaws have been depictions of individuals rather than space battles or solar phenomena.Ah well, it's a a fun read
第593条评论: The pace of the follow up story is glacial with none of the characterisation that was such a feature of the earlier books. He's run out of steam but there are some spectacular set pieces that are rushed. Much of he book is a quasi-scientific treatise
第594条评论: Sad it is over, could not put these books down. Liu emerges you in a world filled with human conditions, happiness and fears.
第595条评论: Part 3 of this Three Body trilogy provides over 700 pages of turn-page reading. It's more narrative and less character-driven than the previous two but still captivating. Is this really the end or will it become a trilogy in the Hitchhiker's sense?
第596条评论: Final book of the trilogy. One of the best stories Ive read in my life. Detailed, sometimes heavy like cosmic engine, sometimes light as a feather. Must to read!!
第597条评论: This concluding volume didn’t disappoint me! Perhaps slower in delivery and of course the time represented much longer.I found it important to remind myself that it was science fiction and thus anything is possible with fiction, limited only by the imagination of the author, which I confess is much more fertile than mine! Thank you
第598条评论: What can be said about such a fantastic trilogy. All three books kept me riveted from start to finish. The interplay between fact and fiction is staggering and the scope of the novels are just amazing. It will be difficult to find other books to compare with these three.
第599条评论: This is an excellent read, and a fitting end to Liu’s Three Body Problem trilogy.That is not to say that I agree with it.  There is a big different between reading that stimulates and reading that resonates, and this is definitely the former.The book that most came to mind after finishing Death’s End was Ayn Rand’s 'Atlas Shrugged'.  Death’s End is certainly no simple paraphrase of Rand’s book, but the actions and motivations of the characters, the roles played by individuals, private companies and government bodies, and the final denouement in sum evoke a striking parallel.Unfortunately, to provide substantive evidence of these parallels would inter alia expose significant spoilers as the character of involved players often drive key plot twists (as in Atlas Shrugged).  Suffice to say that the repeated predisposition of the human population to comfort and lassitude after each crisis mimics Rand’s disdain for the collective wisdom of the general public and their leaders.On the other hand, Liu’s take on all this may just be his commentary on contemporary Chinese society and politics.  This is what makes science fiction so interesting, not just the imagined technical and social worlds that underpin the story, but the (sometimes unwitting) exposure of the writer’s own biases and presuppositions.  For example, after reading much contemporary US science fiction it is hard not to notice both an obsession with military and social rank, and an abysmal ignorance of economics.  Not too different to the real world.
第600条评论: Not as good as the first two books in my opinion. Great concepts though. Characters are not as easy to identify with and feel unlike some books in the same genre.
第601条评论: A very thought provoking read, and quite terrifying. The whole series culminates in this climatic third book, I am 50% through at the moment and I cannot put it down. If you like SiFi to be challenging, stimulating and intelligent, this is the series for you. Not the dystopian end of world stuff. Humans are shown to grow and become more harmonious as a species, growing together against a common foe.Netflix are making a film I think? I am not convinces they would do this magnificent book the justice it deserves. As the writer has created a book this is quite Apolitical. No matter what race, gender or belief held by any of the characters they are treat with respect and contribute to the story.
第602条评论: This is one of those books where the blurb avoids spoiler by bearing only a passing resemblance to the actual plot.It is the final part of Cixin Liu's Three Body Problem trilogy of interstellar invasion.It is a book which managed to confound my expectations. As I reached the end of the second part,the Dark Forest, I did wonder where the final part could go,so much seemed to have been resolved. As I started Death's End, the fear that this had nowhere to go grew. It felt as if the author was just filling in incidental detail to the main, almost completed story. But then, blimey Charlie, Cixin whips off a cloth to reveal that the original story of the conflict between Earth and Trisolaris is only a small part of a vastly greater canvas.This is science fiction on an enormous scale, possibly surpassed only by Stephen Baxter's Xelee sequence in its scope in time and space. Having read unhealthily large quantities of science fiction, I find myself looking for authors who will say something new. While this trilogy explores similar themes to Greg Bear's Forge of God and Anvil of Stars, it is original enough to satisfy that craving. Its unique selling point is a virtually sociological approach to the universe. It is a book about how whole societies respond to pressure. As such it could be seen as a second cousin of Asimov's Foundation novels and science of psycho-history.While the sheer scale is a great strength of the book, it is also something of a weakness. Sometimes the brush is just too broad to be satisfying. Mid way through the book, the entire human race does something, and then a couple of chapters later, reverses that action. The events are just too momentous to be skated over in such perfunctory fashion.My other main problem with Cixin as a writer, on the evidence of these books, is over reliance on a repeated plot device.  On two or three occasions in the trilogy the human race (once again acting as a whole) does something crushingly stupid, where the foolishness of the action is blatantly obvious to the reader. It's a bit like watching a horror film and wanting to shout at the characters "for goodness sake don't go down that darkened corridor, don't you realise you're in a horror movie?"So, this is rip roaring space opera, with enough originality to be interesting, written on the biggest possible scale, where that scale is both the biggest strength and the greatest weakness.
第603条评论: As a Chinese descendant with weak command of reading Chinese, I regret not having the ability to read the novel in Chinese. I have read the trilogy and I enjoyed the second and the third books the most. It has been difficult to get attached to the characters (especially their names) and the way it was written, also the translation isn't the best (not sure whether it is the translator's ability or the original text).But once you get past the some times difficult comprehension, you can love the plot. I was reading all for the events and results that the author is driving, there is always a twist. Once you think that wow is this happening and are we sticking with this, please expect yet another plot twist. I think this is the greatest part, if you think you can imagine the worse of an alien invasion, try this one.
第604条评论: Or, more accurately, a poetic and scientific genius. Thank you Mister Cixin Liu, for keeping us dreaming. You wonderful being
第605条评论: The first book in the series was an oddity, one that I loved for the fresh viewpoint, the historical nature, the madness of the characters that are the distilled essence of humanity, while remaining quite believable. I thought the rest of the series would continue in a similar vein, but how wrong I was. The scope of everything touched on just expanded and expanded.I found parts of the second and third books difficult to read. I had to force myself to read through them - the ideas and events were almost too much to consume. It was difficult to focus on the fact that this is all fiction. But there was still that doubt - what if this is really what the Universe holds? It is a scary thought. Perhaps with books like this, humanity might be better prepared for what might really be worst-case scenarios?This is why I have given this book four stars instead of five. I cannot say I love it. I love it and hate it. The ideas it encompasses, the situations and the - callousness? - of the universe and those that inhabit it were a struggle to have in my head. But it is worth it, to experience the universe anew, and expand the way I think about it - albeit in a (hopefully) fictional way.I must also give a special thank you to the translators and editors - they have done a magnificent job, I hardly knew it had been translated at all!Like climbing a mountain, it can be stressful and difficult at times, but the vista from the top can make it worth it.
第606条评论: So I reached the last book of this very challenging trilogy, and I must say it was very difficult going for me. While there was much to engage me in discrete sections, I literally felt pulled through the universe at light speed because there were just too many complex ideas and theories for me, the average reader, to grapple with.The good bits for me was the love story involving aerospace engineer Cheng Xin, who takes on the role of Swordholder, which followed on (I felt) less excitingly from that of the Wallfacer in the previous book, and average Joe, Yun Tianming, that literally stretched in unrequited fashion over eons, and even in disembodied form (you have to read it yourself; much too many details to labour over). However, even that storyline was checkered, and unsurprisingly so, because of all the eras spanning centuries or more that the reader has to travel through plus all the astrophysics to navigate.So it comes as a huge relief when I got totally drawn into the fantasy tales that Yun Tianming tells Cheng Xin as an allegory and possibly hidden message about the Trisolarians who may or may not be ready to live in peace with the human race. Those tales are nestled in the middle part of 600+ pages and were good enough reasons for me to power through and not give up, and see how they were significant to the main storyline.Another character that held an interest for me is a Lucy Liu-like character from “Kill Bill”, who is actually a Sophon, or a Trisolarian android acting as a kind of envoy and communications agent, who spectacularly splices with her samurai sword some pesky humans who just cannot wait their turn to get at the food supplies in the story arc about displaced populations herded like refugees in the Australian continent, which was a terrifying part of the novel. But she too similarly disappears and reappears another few eras later.The unifying character Cheng Xin and her faithful sidekick AA hibernates through many eras to finally reach another terrifying prospect of the entire solar system collapsing into two dimensions. That in itself was spectacularly dealt with but as they journeyed on to more desolation, it really felt too dark and bleak for me.A clever and intelligent book, but I felt buried under the deluge of ideas and information.
第607条评论: This is the third part of the Three Body Problem trilogy and in my opinion it is the worst of the three parts. For me it is extremely confusing and I find difficult to picture and to understand those dimensionality changes depicted. Description may be very colorful but I do not think it is solid from a scientific point of view.
第608条评论: Loved this whole series but the main character in this final installment is just too infuriatingly stupid when it comes down to it. I can't even explain why without spoiling anything. She's basically a hippy trying to preach peace and love in the middle of No Man's Land during the First World War but she's dragged humanity with her in her stupidity and expects everything will be fine, even though she can see clouds of mustard gas rolling in. Aagh I hate her so much, even more than Joffrey!Great world building, though the ending was very much "out there."
第609条评论: I'd never heard of these books or of Cixin Liu. I've been reading my way through 100 years of science fiction writing thinking I had an open mind and broad horizons without noticing I was only reading English language work. This amazing series stands next to any of the greats of Western literature, Dune and Foundation spring to mind, and the extraordinary depth and detail of the author's writing reminds me of Kim Stanley Robinson, although to make comparisons risks detracting from the author's individuality and brilliance. Thanks also to the wonderful work of the translator who made the work flow beautifully and added helpful and interesting notes to facilitate comprehension.This is a must read for the serious student of sci fi!
第610条评论: This whole series is some amazing hard sci-fi, up there with the best. But I would say its this last book that has the most thought provoking physics. Its hard to review without spoiling anything so i wont say much. But i did have to sit in a quiet room for a while once finishing this. My mind was whirling like a maelstrom as it tried to come to terms with ideas of a such enormous scope. Its not a particularly happy ending, buts its certainly an interesting one. Just before I read the book I happened to read about Godel's Incompleteness Theorem, which is a proof that shows the mathematics of our world is weirdly inconsistent. The author doesnt mention this Theorm by name but I cant help wondering if he is alluding to it at the end.Could the author be right? Could this be the universe we live in? I would love to hear what real physicists think!
第611条评论: There’s some thoroughly intriguing SF concepts here which beg to be explored further. However, maybe it was reading the entire trilogy in a row but the writing style and structure of the novel got to me on this reading. Essentially it’s a list of high concept SF described in great detail. The story is very little and the character’s paper thin. I enjoyed where it took me but I felt like I shouldn’t. If it weren’t for the interesting subject matter I don’t think I would have even finished the bookMild Spoilers in the next paragraph!!As an end to the trilogy, it’s a little strange. The familiar conflict is resolved unexpectedly and several new threat are established late in the story, the way out of which seem s bit of a cheat, but within the themes of the novel it works, if a little underdeveloped.Still, I would recommend the trilogy. The science is enough to hold interest, the concepts proposed enough to think about for a lifetime.Ich habe die ersten 2 Bände als Hörbücher auf Deutsch kennengelernt und bin in den Sog der Erzählung geraten. Da ich nicht auf die erst für 2019 angekündigte deutsche Übersetzung für den 3. Band warten wollte, habe ich auf die bereits vorliegende englische Version zurückgegriffen.Sprachlich entwickelt sich der Autor über die 3 Bände deutlich. Ist "Die drei Sonnen" noch nüchtern wie ein Kanzleibericht, hat "Der dunkle Wald" bereits fast lyrisch zu nennende Passagen (ist das wirklich immer derselbe Autor, frage ich mich). Death's End halte ich in dieser Beziehung für den gelungensten Teil der Trilogie.Zum Inhalt: Die Handlung springt zuerst vor den Schluss des 2. Bandes zurück, führt auf diese Weise die Hauptprotagonistin des 3. Bandes ein. Die Handlung entfaltet sich dann schnell dramatisch und  die Erwartungshaltung des Lesers wird wiederholt gekonnt in die Irre geführt. Es sei nur soviel verraten: Cixin Liu  versprüht erneut eine fast unglaubliche Phantasie, fühlt sich nicht zu einem Happy End verpflichtet, aber der Roman endet doch mit einen Funken Hoffnung.Den 5. Stern wollte ich nicht geben, weil mir an einigen Stellen der "deus ex machina" doch zu deutlich grüßen lässt.Tras disfrutar de la ciencia  ficción durante varias décadas, esta trilogía me ha devuelto a los orígenes . Digno sucesor de los grandes escritores de la hard-SF, LiuCixin abre la puerta  a los grandes retos  de la humanidad a escala galáctica y universal, a los interrogantes  de la fisica actual y a los posibles  destinos que  nos esperan. Después de leer estos libros no se puede mirar a las estrellas del mismo modo.Aunque  hay algunas licencias en cuanto a física, esta trilogía ha conseguido lo que mas aprecio en la SF, disfrutar, hacerme preguntas nuevas y pensar de forma distinta.  No es una visión optimista de la convivencia galáctica, pero por desgracia, puede que acertada. Muy a tener en cuenta para nuestras acciones como planeta...Arrivato al termine dell'opera, mi guardo indietro e apprezzo il grande progetto di Cixin Liu: offrire una visione non banale dell'incontro un'altra civiltà e della conoscenza dell'universo che imporrebbe scaturire. La visione proposta non è ottimistica ed è originale il modo in cui si propone la tesi della responsabilità individuale a contribuire ad un diverso corso degli eventi. Anche qui Cixin Più indulge in lunghe descrizioni e racchiude momenti chiave in poche pagine. Gli ultimi capitoli sono ricchi di spunti di riflessione e di idee sull'uso di diverse tecnologie in contesti differenti. Spero che presto qualcuno scriva un libro su "la fisica di Three Body Problem" .
第612条评论: Possible spoiler:I was totally hooked on the first two books as they managed to combine complex ideas with advanced scientific concepts. But what underpinned this was a fascinating story.  For me it was the mysticism and unpredictability that surrounded the Trisolaran civilisation and their need to find a new world, their relationship with Earth and the human reaction to the ongoing threat. This is what drove the story and for me what made the first two books some of the best sci fi I have read in years. Unfortunately the third book is a big let down, it has some interesting parts but the main story loses all its pace, there are huge sections of technical description and exploration of theoretical concepts which just become tiresome when all you want is for the story to advance. The biggest and most disappointing factor for me is the fact that the Trisolaran’s simply disappear from the story with no satisfying conclusion as to their own outcome (perhaps this will be another book...?). I found the ending long winded and without direction. It felt almost as if the author had to fill 600 pages up so kept going off on irrelevant tangents.I feel that this trilogy is a must for any sci fi fan as the author has a style and expertise that is totally unique, however, just be prepared for a slightly less than satisfying ending !
第613条评论: The first book in this series was intriguing and I wanted to know more, after reading the second installment I was less enthralled but was still interested to see where the story went.The answer to that appears to be nowhere. Infact the author dosen't seem to be particularly interested in telling a story at all, they seem more interested in exploring some of the more way out possibilites of physics than anything else, but without a strong narrative to hang these ideas on it all just feels so pointless.I can't really reccommed this book, the story doesn't really go anywhere and ultimately it left me feeling very unsatisfied.
第614条评论: Science fiction at the scale of the foundation of reality and spanning multiverses. A mind-bending journey through perception altering philosophical questions without the dryness of philosophy.
第615条评论: Deaths end and the entire triology takes you through a breathtaking landscape and story that is impossible to forget. Must read for all science fiction lovers.
第616条评论: This series has been unlike any other SF series I've ever read. I'm going to be thinking about it for a long time yet.
第617条评论: I loved the first two in the series, but this one is the most ambitious of the three, An incredible trip of a book!
第618条评论: A fitting end to the trilogy!  One of the best sci-fi books I have ever read. Long, but well worth the effort.
第619条评论: informative
第620条评论: a literary rarity in that the genre does not typically lend itself to literary excellence. Chinese to English interpretation exemplary. Jack M.
第621条评论: It takes too long to get going, I set it aside after the first 100 pages.
第622条评论: This is a must read for anyone interested in sci-fi. I enjoyed it very much and had a difficult time putting the books down!
第623条评论: Honestly the best Sci-Fi series I've ever read in my life. Cixin Liu's storytelling is astoundingly unpredictable but believable. I'd recommend this to anyone.
第624条评论: Intriguing story which builds sound foundations in it's internal science. The characters tumble through the universe and you're kept guessing until the very last
第625条评论: Kept hearing about the trilogy and finally read it. Would recommend to all readers of science fiction and literature in general.
第626条评论: The books in this series really make you think.  The plot was completely unpredictable. The only reason I did not give 5 stars is that it's not a "feel good" read.  In fact, it was downright depressing at various points considering the inevitability of human foolishness (especially since I read it around the time of the 2016 presidential elections in the USA).  The fact that I listened to the audiobook version at various points and probably made it even worse since the voice performance could not match the depth of human emotion that the storyline evoked.
第627条评论: Tons of new ideas in these three books.  Every time the situation starts to stabilize, there is some new revelation and things change completely.  Maybe I'm pumped up right now from just finishing the series, but this seems like one of the greatest and most epic sci-fi series I have read.  Similar to the impression I had after reading Stephen Baxter's Manifold series.  The universe is a tremendous place, and much bigger than anything we can imagine.If I have a criticism, it would be that the ending in the last 10% of this book seems disconnected from most of what happened in the books leading up to it.
第628条评论: This is a very unique sci-fi on the scale of Dune and with a dark view of civilization across the galaxy. Originally written in Chinese, the translation is very well done and I was glued to the story through all three volumes. Highly recommend for those that enjoy a psychological thriller mashed with grand science fiction.
第629条评论: There are a lot of deep concepts explored in Deaths End,  so it's not an easy read.  Despite being a fast reader,  each of the Three Body novels had taken me around or over a month to read. There is plenty of physics, psychology,  and philosophy to wade through,  consider,  and assimilate. I don't want to spoil any of the story,  just read it.  And if you are a special kind of reader,  you may come to love it.
第630条评论: In the author's note at the end of book one, he mentions that he discovered at a young age that he has the ability to experience different dimensions with his senses.  This trilogy proves this, in my opinion.  What a trip!  I have awakened each morning immediately thinking of these books.  As one reader commented, I, too, have learned so much from reading this trilogy.  Each one only gets better.  Thank you, Cixin Liu.
第631条评论: I enjoyed this book like few others I've read. Along with the other two books in the trilogy I would call this story one of the best ever told.  Absolutely fascinating ideas about the nature of sentience and the fate of civilization. Very imaginative and well told with many intertwining characters and deeply developed personalities. This is a book I will likely read again, it's that good.
第632条评论: There is an evolution of themes and storylines with this series. There is certainly a common theme of our place in the universe, but this story extrapolates much MUCH further, and I think presents many more scientific theories and laws to move the story forward. I really enjoy what I would call "smart", or maybe "hard" science fiction that is firmly rooted in some vein of scientific rigor. I must say my head was swimming a bit as I approached the end of this book, but maybe that's a good thing. Kudos on a smart and epic journey.
第633条评论: Made me think more than any book I can remember.  I’ll probably never stop thinking about the hundred s of concepts in this trilogy.Time well spent.
第634条评论: Not an easy read, but the whole series is worth the effort. The genius the author is impressive. All ties up nicely.
第635条评论: [No spoilers] This is a review of the entire Three-body Trilogy, "The Three Body Problem", "The Dark Forest" and "Death's End".If you thought you'd read all the best sci-fi ever, add this one to your list. After you've read Asimov's Foundation series, and every Iain Banks Culture novel, what else is going to impress? I'm glad to add this trilogy to that mental list of the best of the best. Epic, but with continuity of characters, human, but also social, with a wonderful writing style (even as a translation) to boot. Just wonderful.
第636条评论: An excellent example of science and a first rate imagination cohabitting the same space. I highly recommend this book to all my friends.
第637条评论: Innovative. In the extreme.Great characters.Fun!  Hmmm. More words required by amazon. So here are more words with humble
第638条评论: All three books in this series were amazing. I couldn't put any of them down, as soon as I read them. This one is the most exhilarating.
第639条评论: Somehow sad, but I like the idea of the grand cycle of the universe. Looking forward to more english translation from Liu.
第640条评论: Very entertaining. Interesting contrast with western authors.
第641条评论: We thought we knew something at the end of the 2nd book, but there is no way to predict how the third one turns out.
第642条评论: Unique, exciting, and thoughtful.  Hard to come by in a scifi novel these days!
第643条评论: Pretty much everything is vague and the story is horribleSo not read this book !LolololololJust kidding about everythingA
第644条评论: Cixin Liu is an amazingly creative writer. Of the three novels in the three body series this is his best in my opinion.
第645条评论: Haven't read something this cool. I thought this book wouldn't be as good as first one, but this was by far the best in the series.
第646条评论: Been over 10 years since I first read the trilogy - and never have another novel stuck in my heart for so long. It truly never fades. The sensation it gave me still quakes through my mind until today -To me what Liu excelled at was how myriad of ideas sprung from what we have as real theoretical physics, were woven into a terrifying, mystical, coherent and convincing picture of the universe, all with the perspective of our own existence both as individuals and as a civilization.The trilogy is a master piece in mixing fundamental theories into its world building. Why are everything so chaotic in the quantum field? Why is the universe so silent from intelligent life? What are the dark matters? Why are there 11 dimensions according to string/m theory while all but three dimensions are collapsed in our world? What about the black holes (maybe some of them were not born from dying stars)? Is nature.. natural?Liu might not be the first person to thought of any “one” of the sci fi concepts in the trilogy, because we are talking about alien invasion, (enhanced) VR gaming, Femi paradox, space battle, destroying stars, multi dimensional space, FTL spacecraft, brain in a vat all that stuff... But he surely is the first one who created such a full picture, ground so hard in many of today’s physics theories, answered so many things with its unique take, turning cold numbers of science into tales of terror and wonder, take us so far all the way from the soil of the earth to the cold end of time and space.
第647条评论: A masterclass. One for the ages.Cixin Liu possibly has the wildest imagination to ever grace any type of literature. The author's genius pours out on almost every page of this book - a book that somehow outdoes the apparently unreachable brilliance of the previous two. Readers can do nothing but marvel at the author's audacity - tinkering with the lightspeed, the journeys through worlds with different dimensions, the blackholes of new varieties or even creation of its own universes. All other science fiction stories that one may have read - those that spawn machines, landscapes, aliens, scientific laws etc we do not have in our lives - appear tame compared to what goes on in this book.The book is relentless in its expansion of space and time scope throughout. All this is accompanied with enough technical details to not sound ridiculous but not excessive to lose the readers. Amid all this, the main story of humanity's survival remains on a roller-coaster that no reader is likely to be able to predict at almost any turn. The number of ideas in this book exceed those generated by most celebrated sci-fi authors in their entire lifetime. And still the author finds enough space to pose new philosophical quandaries, narrate fairytale allegories, weave most intricate types of game theory situations, develop the extreme political/economic situations and even have poetries, stone-age histories, paintings and (of course) a love story.If it is a marvel to have such an outlandish imagination, the bigger is the ability to make a story out of all this - a story that most will be able to live in their minds and enjoy. Those who have to find something to critic could take issues with the writing style, technicalities, characters or the unending grimness, but this is equivalent of finding fault in the fonts of Einstein's paper on general relativity!  No superlatives can do justice to what the author attempts and executes in this book.
第648条评论: This book left me feeling very depressed after finishing.***Spoilers Throughout***I feel like the writer maybe had a shift in his personal life, because compared with the hopeful idealistic ending of "The Dark Forest" (where the sophon communicates from Trisolaris a hope that love will penetrate the dark forest, and that "a new day will always come" for children such as Xia Xia, as well as the love between Luo Ji and his wife) the story of "Death's End" is very cynical when it comes to concepts such as love, and any hope for reconcilation between the civilisations is swiftly dashed.In this story, the love that existed between Luo Ji and his wife (which had been portrayed as so mysterious and ineffable as to need no words and communicate on a soul level) has disappeared within two years. She took her child and left him, no one knowing why. All characters who make decisions based on love - at least all FEMALE characters that make decisions based on love - end up causing mass destruction and death unwittingly.Showing mercy or caring about human rights (expressed through the actions of women characters or femininity in general) always leads to death. For Earth in electing a female Swordholder, for Cheng Xin in not triggering the deterrence, and for stopping Wade from developing lightspeed travel. While many of his protagonists are female and have good qualities, he repeatedly refers to "the feminisation" of society during Deterrence Era as being one of Earth's greatest weaknesses, and it's only women's acts of love that have negative consequences (in contrast Yun Tianming's acts of love which are almost miraculous). In fact it's women who get humanity into this mess to begin with (signalling the Trisolarians), and another woman who dooms the solar system.In all, the book is very bleak in its outlook. Ultimately it is humanity's best qualities that are responsible for its demise. Repeatedly shown in different scenarios, through moral dilemmas where characters are forced to make decisions that cost the lives of thousands to even billions of people "for the greater good". And the characters that hesitate, we see that this is their failure. And those that strike and kill - they're the ones who could have saved the world. That's one layer of nihilism.The second layer is the "dark forest theory" which only becomes more horrifying as we go. As a story I don't mind this, because it's an interesting solution to the Fermi Paradox. But the fact that this law of aggression and destruction is a universal constant that occurs no matter what in the universe, and in all of the billions of alien civilisations none have decided that banding together to share information and help each each other might be a good idea, and the ONLY way to avoid annihilation after revealing your whereabouts is to cripple yourself permanently by putting yourself in a mini-black hole...And the destruction of the solar system, with the harrowing descriptions of the death of billions...And the dimensional whirlpools that will eventually destroy the universe...It's a grand epic (on the timescale of the entire universe) but the overwhelming effect is to leave you feeling kind of hopeless and depressed. Especially since the ending didn't even show what happened to the two main characters at the end, or explain whether the universe really did cause another Big Bang.The best thing about the book is the exploration of theoretical physics ideas that are rarely played with in fiction the way they are here. I enjoyed it a lot.It's an EPIC on the grandest scale imaginable (literally the end of time and space).But don't expect to feel happy at the end of it though.
第649条评论: These novels start out in a disorienting way:  it is hard to figure out what the main plot lines are, what the characters' motivations are, and what is at stake.  Of the 3 volumes, this one was the easiest one for me to get into - instead of the 3/4 for the first, it only took me about 100 pages,  Then, I was utterly riveted and could not stop reading.  The final volume is even better than the first two, with sympathetic characters, fantastically abrupt yet believable plot changes, and the revelation of great themes.  It is profound, moving, fascinating, and ultimate.At the beginning, the Luo balance of terror has survived for over 50 years.  Then, a new human takes power and everything changes.  As a backdrop, there are many stages of civilization - even a relocation of most humans beyond Jupiter - that form the options/choices of human destiny.  The detail with which they are thought through makes this a masterpiece of imaginative construction.  In addition, not just the Trisolarians are involved, but so are other species.  I do not want to say more because spoilers must be avoided in the service of the best reading experience.What is so fun about this is the cerebral experience.  I thought of our place in the universe, how vast it is, and even what it all means.  This is the unique thing that visionary scifi can do.  The only other scifi authors who achieve this include Frank Herbert, Octavia Butler, Arthur Clarke, and Isaac Asimow - that is the company in which Cixin Liu belongs.Recommended with the greatest enthusiasm.  This trilogy takes real effort to get through, but it can truly expand one's mind.
第650条评论: The third book in the series, and the longest. One cannot skip the third book after reading the first two. I thought this was the weakest of the series, due to great time gaps. Not trying to spoil anything, but key characters get no resolution treatment because time leaps forward. Overall the book is good and absolutely worth reading after the first two. Definitely not a standalone book -- don't get this if you don't plan to read the first two books. This is by far the most creative author I've encountered in a long time. Then again, it's my first adventure in Sci-Fi -- maybe everything is this innovative. The ending was satisfying and philosophical.There did seem to be some preoccupation with gender-based emotion at times.  The whole "men are more aggressive, women are more nurturing, and there are only 2 genders", and thus, nuance gets lost and characters can be a bit boxed in. The story's backdrop always provides context for these categories though, so it's not too stifling. It is a tad old fashioned, this view of human emotion, but it's worth noting that intelligence, strength, innovation and achievements are not reserved for any one gender.
第651条评论: Mankind is presumptive. We know what we’re doing, don’t we?I am the world, my race is the best of the planet, the Earth is the centre of the solar system. Our miraculous Goldilocks zone. We are unique in the universe. Light is immutable! But we are so wrong. We are not alone. And we are not even taking baby steps out into the cosmos, we’re in the womb, still pre-born.What started with a video game in the Three Body Problem ends finally some 10 billion years later. Cixin Liu build’s from his Dark Forest theory to present us a universe that casts mankind as vastly insignificant. Liu throws concepts at us that are breath-taking but also broadly acceptable in the sphere of hard science fiction. His universe is believable and realistic, and still relatable and the challenges he creates are, mostly, resolved successfully. I’ve not been so gob-smackingly impressed since first contact with Contact.Death’s End still suffers the failings of previous novels, mankind is simply too complicit in its entirety, for some of the plot and I’d agree with other reviewers that characterisation is lacking. Cheng Xin, the central character, is often no more than a cypher for Liu to describe the various Eras of mankind’s development.There is galaxy spanning travel and aliens and planets and space stations and interstellar war. There are moments of wonder and heartbreak and revelation particularly on Planet Blue and Planet Grey that deserve retelling. But these are handled coolly by Liu. In leaving me desperately wanting more, the style is perhaps to Liu’s credit but I do, still, want more! The trilogy could easily be nine books and would only be more absorbing.But no failing detracts *at all* from the wondrous nature of the story. There may be nobody firing lasers going, pew! pew! but only because Liu has stepped outside expected conventions to completely reinvigorate the genre.This is Space Odyssey expanded while others reboot Star Wars.
第652条评论: I enjoyed the book very much. Liu Cixin is a brilliant SF writer. He broke my mind several times in Death’s End, as he had in the previous two books. The span of the book is breathtaking.This was perhaps overly long. Every twist in the book was worth the wait.My favorite pictures are (some mild spoilers)1. The snowflake they formed from the oceans around the flat earth2. The glutton fish lazily sleeping in the soap bubbles3. The black death-line con-trails of the zero homer ships arching into the skyHighly recommend to read all three. And Ball Lightning, though that has a different feel.
第653条评论: I have to say- I'm super disappointed to be writing another 3 star review for this series and also relieved that it's over. I originally attributed my feelings about The Dark Forest being sort of mediocre to the translator, and while I stand by the conclusion that Ken Liu did it better, I don't think it's entirely Maritnsen's fault.I don't know if I wish I'd stopped after The Three-Body Problem. It was certainly a lot of time to devote to a trilogy that I felt meh about, but I think I was too intrigued not to know how it all ended. When I think about The Three-Body Problem, I recall the humorous one liners that broke up the tension, I recall the mystery and the intrigue surrounding the Trisolarans, the suspense, the weirdness of it all.Where did all that go for books two and three? Who felt either of those books warranted an additional 200/300 pages over the first? For a series that spans 1400+ pages, I could probably sum books 2 and 3 up with one line each.Death's End gives us a female protagonist, that I'm sad to say is insanely stereotypical. Cheng Xin is pretty. Cheng Xin is soft. Cheng Xin has maternal instincts. She's feminine and flowery and though she's described as smart she fails in every task she's given and the readers are led to believe that "men's jobs" should be left to the men. I know Liu can do better. He gave us Ye Wenjie after all, who was none of those things.But my biggest complaint about this book is most definitely the conclusion. The first half of the book, I actually did enjoy quite a bit. The last half was dragged out unnecessarily, nothing is accomplished the plot really seems to go nowhere. I could have lived with all this if the conclusion had paid off, but it didn't.END OF SERIES, MAJOR SPOILERS:After all that, after Cheng Xin and AA escape, after we learn that Blue Space and Gravity made it to several inhabitable worlds, we never get to see those worlds. We never get to see what became of the remainder of humanity. We never learn anything more about Singer, who cleanses systems or why. We're given a frustratingly short glimpse into the thoughts of an enemy greater than Trisolaris and then nothing else ever comes of it. And then to top it off, Cheng Xin and Yun Tianming never even get their space rendezvous?**END SPOILERS**On the one hand, the conclusion is sort of happy. A small population of humanity survived to find and inhabit other worlds. They were not exterminated (at least not for millions of years). Cheng Xin's ending and existence isn't ever happy and her personal conclusion was a huge disappointment. This book is frustratingly dark, and without the humor to break it up, I really believe it needed some kind of happy ending for the protagonist.I will say that the story is grand. It spans literally millions of years, galaxies, etc. The overall feeling is that this is humanity's story and not one particular character's. It draws some interesting conclusions, and certainly some relevant ideas about human nature. These are books where the individual stories are sacrificed in favor of the bigger picture, so if that's what draws you in as a reader, you will probably get more enjoyment out of these books than I did. If you're reading hoping to recapture some of the elements of The Three-Body Problem I think you can safely stop reading there.
第654条评论: In the whole series I felt there was a tension between the story (built mostly around the characters) and the pseudo-scientific vision pieces.  (Spoiler alert for what follows.)The first volume was a good enough story (actually about the Cultural Revolution and its consequences) that you were willing to forgive the long passages of pseudo-science.The second volume was an impressively intricate detective story, with many threads spinning all the way to the end.The third volume, however, was a series of ups and downs that ultimately seemed to lose focus.  Others may react differently, but I felt that the author had built up to such a climax that he really didn't know where to go.Instead of tying up loose ends as in volume two, he left it all hanging for a new set of strangely disjointed pseudo-scientific episodes.  For the most part this was neither compelling nor related to the rest of the plot, so for me at least it was a missed opportunity.
第655条评论: This book is probably the most imaginative Sci-fi novel I have ever read. In the technology, science, and scenarios described, nothing really compares. Some of the science and tech are not very plausible (by what I know of today's science) such as using quantum entanglement to communicate information and lightspeed travel spaceships and bizarre weapons.The book deals with huge subjects like the entire lifespan of the universe and what that means for life within it. It deals with huge scientific and philosophical/existential/ethical issues. I also like some of the elements regarding inter-civilization sociology. However it was missing some of the story I enjoyed in the first novel of the trilogy (The Three Body Problem). I really enjoyed the human-centered story in that work. This work almost seemed like a work where you were taken through a progression of epochs but nothing was emotionally gripping as the wound through. Had this story had that element it would have been the perfect scifi novel.
第656条评论: A magnificent piece of literature capping off an awesome trilogy. Big ideas strewn throughout, great character development, and well developed story plotting. My new favorite author.... can't wait until his next project!
第657条评论: It is simply astounding. Words are inadequate in describing the depth and the breadth of this work. Absolutely worth the time.
第658条评论: Most expansive sci fi series I've ever read. The incorporation of possibilities in physics completely integrated into the story line is unparalleled in my reading experience. Highly recommended.
第659条评论: This was some seriously top notch sci fi and just as good as the other two books in the series.
第660条评论: Another unsolved problem in physics - hope that someone will have an earth shaking idea on how to approach a new theory that leads to new experimental tests and predictions.
第661条评论: wishing for a well made film or series. but WELL MADE
第662条评论: Best and most creative science fiction series i've read, really different trains of thought than your typical SF book, also pretty heavy at times.
第663条评论: Not much too say. I read it just because I read book 1 and 2. Each next was weaker.
第664条评论: Great book. Was addicted to it for five days. Really stretches your imagination and has some really sad and touching parts too.
第665条评论: Such a good series - I read this book in about 3 days. Amazing.
第666条评论: I loved the scope of this book, and its subtle, complicated people. The twists keep coming, and even as the primary plot talks of the dark nature of the cosmos, the characters here give us hope. It makes my life feel very, very small though.
第667条评论: From atom bombs to the lightspeed and the fourth dimension, this books takes us on an amazing ride of imagination, heart break and completely unexpected creativity. Truly amazing.O melhor livro da saga, o autor consegue finalizar de uma forma magnifica. Nos faz pensar sobre a humanidade e a vastidão do universo.
第668条评论: The scale and intracacy of the story throughout the series is phenomenal.There have been very few science fiction books that I  have found so compelling. Worthy of a read by any "hard" science fiction fan.The translation doesn't detract from the readability at all and the books flowed very well with good translators notes throughout to explain non obvious references or story elements.Outra obra prima de Cixin Liu.Um livro tenso e muito bem escrito.Não gostei tanto do final, mas isso não desmerece a obra, muito menos o conjunto da obra.
第669条评论: Just read it, read the whole trilogy. It’s better than Dune, better than Foundation, better than any sci fi I’ve ever read.  And it’s really interesting to read a Chinese author, looking at the universe through a Chinese point of view.On this final book of "Cixin Liu's Universe", Earth faces an uninmaginable threat from a rival civilization. The characters of the book face hard choices, and several twists occur, as our planet is barely balancing on the abism of destruction. Criptic messages are exchanged between Earth and its rival, envolving even a fairy tale! Our entire universe is menaced!Cixin Liu's imagination has no boundaries!
第670条评论: I read this series over a couple of months. Engrossing mix of fundamental science, sociology, futurism and good old fashioned action.I simply could not put this series down, at every turn it had me reconsidering my views, my interpretation of the future and what I want from the world. One of the best sci fi series I've ever read.
第671条评论: The sheer number of chapters and the fact that a lot of them a call 'excerpt from .....  " I found a little disorientating with regards to the story but I urge you to push through it. What I loved about 'Three body' and 'dark forest' is very different to what I love about this book.
第672条评论: Excellent trilogy. Loved each book. This one does a great job of going into various consequences of the past books. I highly recommend this series.
第673条评论: It might be the translation, or just cultural differences.Dialogue is wooden.  The characters are flat as pancakes and asexual.Many are nihilistic and depressed and suicidal.  Nihilistic.There are poetic descriptions with transparent, heavy-handed symbolism.The story has an arc, but boy, it meanders.Messages hidden deep in advanced literary analysis.
第674条评论: I really liked the first two books in the trilogy, but this one seemed like it just wouldn’t end.
第675条评论: This series explores some truly spectacular scientific theories and does a great job of making these complex ideas easy to understand. But if you're like me and love well-formed characters, you'll probably be disappointed. This series is a grim read at many points but this book felt even more grueling perhaps because it was the end.
第676条评论: I ignored the sink cost fallacy to finish this series. The first book was great. The second was difficult and the final book in the trilogy was painful. Read the first book in the series and skip the last two. The plot is random and incoherent. I regret finishing the series.
第677条评论: I honestly had to force myself to finish the book. Easily too long by a good hundred pages. The author spends the last third just throwing out more and more cutting-edge speculative science and plot be damned. Stop after “Dark Forest.”
第678条评论: The third book in the series takes a very different turn, so different that the author should have published it under another name. I expected to find more about Trisolaris, but no, the main idea is still how to avoid a "dark forest" strike. I'd lie if I say I didn't find a lot of interesting ideas, but overall it was disappointing.
第679条评论: Don't bother with this one.  Just read the first two which are excellent.  The second one is my favorite.  I don't agree with the main character on this one and she keeps making wrong decision yet she is forgiven and gets to live almost forever.  Bad ending as well.  Waste of time...
第680条评论: Just finished the trilogy and wish I could get back the hours I spent reading it. This book was completely unnecessary and requires the reader to constantly suspend disbelief. I'm done.
第681条评论: When I started the 3 body problem learning about the cultural revolution of China, I never imagined this is where the story would end up. This was some of the most interesting and accessible high science fiction I've read, and totally understand the praise. While I don't care about the characters as much as I do with other stories, I enjoyed reading about the resilience of humanity.
第682条评论: I read the Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy for the first time, and this one is my favorite of the three. It is so ambitious in scope, taking us from the Sacking of Constantinople, all the way to end of the Universe, and it sparks the imagination about humanity's relationship with technology. Although The Dark Forest is widely regarded as the best of the series, Death's End is my personal favorite because it beautifully narrates precious moments in the characters' lives, and it moved me to tears of joy and shock -- more strongly than the others in the series. But ! most importantly, Liu utilizes many stories within the story to get me, as a reader, to actively engage with the text and speculate on how they might save the world (especially with the fairy tales presented halfway). This book leaves me thinking about it long after I am done, and it has even usurped Frank Herbert's Dune saga as my favorite science fiction series
第683条评论: 2nd book of the series, starts a bit slow continues to get better with every page. Excellent series overall for any serious sci-fi fan.
第684条评论: ...there's no one like him!  Wow!  What a series ender!
第685条评论: This is the 3rd book of the three body problem trilogy. I've read them all. My recommendation to those who wants to read this book is, read all of them in order: 1 the three body problem; 2 the dark forest; 3 deaths end.It will worth your time!
第686条评论: Death’s End was my favorite of the three books. I enjoyed the speculative new technology development and the interplay between the various subplots.
第687条评论: Thought provoking, touching, stressful, amazing. Really good series and this third book is epic. I feel big and small as a human simultaneously.
第688条评论: Awesome trilogy with a great ending. I can't say enough about how thought provoking and thought stimulating these three books were. Looking for something as good to start reading now. Can't seem to find anything.
第689条评论: After reading dark forest, was unable to imagine how the third book would take the story forward. This book is beyond awesome.  Extraordinary original ideas and just keeps getting better and better with every page. The ending could have been better but the journey was worth it.
第690条评论: This book has given me the most incredible reading experience. The 3rd one is the most shocking one and yet most debatable one.
第691条评论: I loved the first two books in the trilogy, but I barely made it through this one. I would only recommend this to people who like grand ideas more than good story and writing. But even the sci-fi ideas get more and more "out there" as compared with the first two books.
第692条评论: An amazing and grand series. I recommend the trilogy to everyone I can.
第693条评论: The first two of the series were very enjoyable. Death's End, not so much.
第694条评论: I enjoyed this book the most by far in the series. The stakes are the highest, the things that happen are the craziest, and the scope of the story is the biggest by far. It was such a fun, crazy adventure reading through this. The only drawback I can see is that this book (and series, really) is probably the hardest, most technical sci fi I have ever read. There were times where I felt like I wasn't reading a novel but a physics textbook. I'm not the smartest cookie in the box so a ton of it was difficult to grasp or just went completely over my head but I still really enjoyed the story. There is also a bit of a disconnect with the characters. I wish they were a bit fleshed out more but given the scope and breadth of the story here, I think it's forgivable. Those are the only things that hold this back from being a 5 star book for me. This is a long book, yes, but I really don't think there is much time wasted. Everything included flows with the story and seems to contribute something to the plot so not a problem there even though it is rather long.Outside of that, this book is pretty awesome! The things that happen are crazy and some of the most imaginative stuff I've read. I don't know how the hell the author came up with some of this stuff but it was a joy to read. I'm not going to get into any of it because I don't want to spoil anything but if you've read the first two you can probably imagine a little bit of what I'm talking about. Just crank that up a ton and that's Death's End. Great story and it's always a wonderful surprise when the last book in a series is the best. A rare feat these days.
第695条评论: After reading the first two books I couldn't imagine how the third could possibly be any better. The second book wrapped up the storyline quite nicely and any continuation seemed like it would have to create unnecessary drama for drama's sake. I am happy to report that I was completely mistaken.It's been a while since I've read the first two, but I would argue that this book is the best of the three. While all three books contain a compelling story, numerous mind-blowing concepts, and a great cast of characters, they each have a different "feel" to them, as if each was written with a different sub-genre in mind.The first book felt like a movie trailer, where the stage is set and we vaguely know what is going to happen, but we don't yet know how we're getting there. The conflict is clear, the villain has been sketched out, and the forces of good are rallying together. This book has all the makings of an epic fantasy, but Liu Cixin thankfully avoids the trap of having the story buckle under the weight of too many plot threads.The second book felt like an action movie. With the background in place, Cixin delivers one revelation after another, keeping his reader glued to the pages as their eyes race though the words in an effort to quicken their journey to the next revelation. This book fulfills on the promise of the "trailer", taking the reader on an exhilarating ride that eventually reaches the promised ending (yay humans!).The third book is completely unlike the first two. There is less of that frenetic energy to get somewhere. It takes on a more philosophical turn where it's not so much about how things end, but how we got there. It puts humanity in perspective, taking away its protagonist role and the presumption of victory. The timeline expands accordingly. Instead of focusing on events that span years or decades, the storyline in this book spans centuries and more. Through it all, the author successfully keeps the story grounded by skillfully intertwining the lives of several characters in a way that flows naturally. Finally, fairy tales, star-crossed lovers, and tea ceremonies. Need I say more?Bottom line. If you liked the first two books, definitely read the third. If you're not really a fan of science fiction, that's okay. Skip the first two books and read the third.
第696条评论: Cixin Liu’s “Death’s End,” the third novel in his “Remembrance of Earth’s Past” trilogy, begins concurrently with some of the events of the second novel, “The Dark Forest,” before using the ability of people to go into hibernation to jump forward in time and move well beyond the second book. “The Dark Forest” left off with a stalemate, as Luo Ji holds the ability to instigate mutually-assured destruction against both Trisolaris and the solar system. In the uneasy peace, the Trisolarans have begun sharing their technology with Earth and even become fascinated by human culture. Humanity, however, has learned from Luo Ji’s “Dark Forest” theory of spacefaring civilizations that intelligent alien life is likely more dangerous than they thought and would strike first if faced with a threat, so human civilization has found ways to minimize its broadcasts of signals into space in order to avoid attracting attention from any other alien civilizations.Cheng Xin, an astrophysicist, began working on a probe to reach the Trisolaran fleet as it approached before entering hibernation. In the future, she finds society much changed and her place in society elevated as she owns the rights to a star that is discovered to have Earth-like planets. She gifts the planets to humanity and, for her generosity, the people of Earth want her to take over control of the mutually-assured destruction technology that preserves the peace with Trisolaris. Unfortunately, the Trisolans realize that she is unlikely to use the weapon, and prepare to invade the Earth. Meanwhile, the ships Blue Space and Gravity, the latter of which contains a gravity wave transmitter, encounter a pocket of fourth-dimensional space beyond the solar system. Realizing that the Trisolarans have invaded, they broadcast the location of Trisolaris, thereby committing the world to destruction under the dark forest theory while also putting the Earth at risk for the same fate. Trisolaris abandons its plans to invade the Earth, while humanity wonders if there’s a way to save itself. It finds a way through a series of layered metaphors transmitted from the only human aboard a Trisolaran ship, which draw upon Edgar Allan Poe’s “A Descent into the Maelström” in order to hide clues for explaining lightspeed travel (pgs. 446, 449). Unfortunately, the destruction of the Solar System follows a plan that the Earth spacefleet could not foresee.Demonstrating the role of the media in shaping public perceptions of places, Liu references the 2008 film “Australia” as Cheng Xin’s only knowledge of the continent prior to the Trisolarans attempting to exile humanity to the continent (pgs. 236-237). Liu’s title, “Death’s End,” refers to some of the changes that hibernation technology caused in human society. He writes, “Once the technology was successfully commercialized, those who could afford it would use it to skip to paradise, while the rest of humanity would have to stay behind in the comparatively depressing present to construct that paradise for them. But even more worrisome was the greatest lure provided by the future: the end of death… those who chose hibernation were taking the first steps on the staircase to life everlasting. For the first time in history, Death itself was no longer fair” (pg. 77). Here Liu uses science-fiction to pose larger questions about the nature of humanity, how changing something as universal as death would affect all levels of society, and explores the concept in tandem with his plot about human advancement following first contact with an alien intelligence. Similarly, another character remarks about the nature of death, “Death is the only lighthouse that is always lit. No matter where you sail, ultimately, you must turn toward it. Everything fades into the world, but Death endures” (pg. 449). Similarly, Liu examines how other technologies, like lightspeed travel, contribute to inequality as the future of the solar system is in doubt. He writes, “The inequality here was seen as the greatest in human history: inequality before death. Historically, inequality mainly manifested itself in areas like economics or social status, but death basically treated everyone the same… But never before had a situation like this presented itself: less than one-ten-thousandth of the population could go into safe hiding, leaving billions on Earth to die” (pg. 473).Liu also broadens his cosmology. The Trisolarans were the only alien civilization glimpsed in the series’ previous two novels, but here he offers glimpses of fourth-dimensional civilizations (pgs. 287-303) as well as one of the alien species that engages in Dark Forest Deterrence, destroying advanced civilizations before they become a threat (pgs. 555-564). In both of those cases, Liu carefully avoid describing the aliens’ physiology, giving just enough of a hint about their technology to fit the themes of his novel without portraying so much that it could become easily dated. This foreshadows his conclusion, in which the fate of the universe hangs in the balance. The end effect is a work of tragic beauty, befitting the themes Liu examined throughout the series. For those who aren’t ready to walk away from the “Remembrance of Earth’s Past” trilogy, Liu authorized Li Jun’s fan fiction, “The Redemption of Time,” as an official interquel to the series and Ken Liu also translated that work.
第697条评论: Still a good book and very memorable trilogy. I just didn't feel that it met the standards set by the first two books.Others have gone over the major points at length, so I won't belabor the obvious. A few things struck me, though. First, that adventure in 4D-land. I have some real issues with the whole  concept, starting with basic physics. In our world, things like electrostatic attraction follow inverse-square laws, but a 4D place would have inverse-cube relationships - and that would require a whole lot of rethought physics. And, if the quantum values that define electron shells in chemistry depend on 3D geometry, 4D atoms would have very different properties. I find it hard to imagine that the same atoms that support life in our world would do the job in that one if they could exist at all. BTW, 'Doc' Smith depicted an adventure in 4D-land in his space operas years ago, and I saw striking similarities in Liu's.(Speaking of physics, the idea of a personal universe just a few kilometers across seemed kind of appealing, until I started to wonder where the waste heat was going.)Also like Doc Smith, Liu envisions planet- and star-busting warfare (or pest control, depending on who you talk to). In this case, however Liu's imagination far outstrips Smith's slide-rule and vacuum-tube technology. Thinking more about it, I see that Liu's vast technologies created equally vast environmental corruption - not just contamination of a planet's air and water, but permanent kinks and creases in the structure of space itself.-- wiredweird
第698条评论: When I first heard of the name of this book, I expected a happy ending.  The twists and turns and frankly the soul of this book kept me both agitated and extremely interested in finding out what happened.  The author has an amazing grasp of the Universe and physics, both cosmology and theoretical physics and of course quantum mechanics.  Still I got lost with all of the science.  But in spite of that the story has strong religious connotations.  Ones that have continued to plague and quite honestly, depress me to this day.I often wonder why we're on this earth and is there a life after death.  Is there any reason why we should matter?  If I believe religion, after we die we go to heaven for all eternity.  And yet if there is no heaven and we just die, will humanity be of any importance.  Are we just germs inhabiting the body of the earth and eventually we'll either destroy it or be killed off in one way or another.  Yet if we are more, then what will happen over the many thousands of years, even millions of years.  The author takes us there, and frankly, it's both frightening and disturbing as well.Personally, I don't believe that some of the weapons described by the author are even theoretically possible.  Still, I'd be lying if I didn't say that I wasn't terrified of it's hideous power.  This book and the books before it are not space operas, nor are they futuristic visions of humanity leaping into space or achieving technological greatness.  It's about the universe being a dark forest that's frankly, not very friendly.  Anyway, I've spoken too much about this and my personal feelings that aren't truly related to the book.  All I can say is that it gives you a very different perspective on life and makes you wish you hadn't read the book and that living in ignorance, hoping for your team to win the championship is a lot simpler than contemplating what we're all about.
第699条评论: Content yourself with the first two books.
第700条评论: This review applies to the entire trilogy with 2 exceptions: first, the ending of Death's End is disappointing, feeling both contrived and premature. There was plenty of opportunity for a 4th and even a 5th book to fill in the period before the last part of book 3.  It feels almost as if the author at some point got tired of his own story and decided to skip to the end.  Second, while much sci do has one dimensional characters who exist only to move the plot forward, this is made even worse here, because the author seems incapable of portraying women with any depth, and the lead character of Death's End is a woman, and a dislikeable, stupid person at that.  Given her consistent blunders, it was difficult to understand why she continued to occupy a position of importance.Now for the good, which far outweighs the bad.  The plot is mesmerizing.  The creativity is unparalleled.  The author's use of current theoretical physics to make amazing future technologies seem scientifically plausible is better than anything being written by English language authors today. And the best part - the author sprinkles clues for what is to come into the narrative, so that every time there is a major plot twist, I found myself thinking I should have seen it coming.  By Death's End I was tuned into this and still missed the most important clue.  This is great stuff for any real fan of the genre.
第701条评论: I couldn’t put this book down. Kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish. 5 stars!
第702条评论: Liu Cixin's "Three-Body Problem" series is the best science fiction I've read in a few years, and his name will stick in my mind as one of the best sci-fi authors I've ever read.  You will love all 3 of the books, and they will fill your mind with concepts you have probably never thought about. "Death's End" is a grand epic tale; a tragedy, love story, mystery, and thriller all baked into one. While reading these books, you have to marvel at the author's mind.  He has clearly put a lot of thought into concepts like time, the universe, physics, space travel, colonization/terraforming of other planets, and especially what might happen when we go looking for other life in the universe.  The "dark forest" concept just gets more terrifying the more you think about it. There is one chapter in the book where we finally get to meet one of the "monsters" in the "dark forest," and it is perfectly written.  Just the right amount of information.  I highly recommend this series, and will definitely read more by this author.  I would've given this book 5 stars, but I took off 1 star because of the ending, and because there are several places in this book that really cry out for illustrations.  It's very hard to get a mental picture of some of the things being described (space city ships, for example), so an illustration here or there would've really helped.
第703条评论: An great ending to a singular and excellent series.
第704条评论: Superb. A dazzling conclusion to an outstanding Trilogy.
第705条评论: A great ending, simply loved all 3 books.
第706条评论: Impressive writer!
第707条评论: Amazing book!
第708条评论: Great ideas for an unbelievable trilogy.
第709条评论: Great read. Excellent end to the series
第710条评论: Awesome
第711条评论: Great read for any Sci fi fan!
第712条评论: Different.  Good read!
第713条评论: When I learned Mr. Liu was writing a third installment to the "Three Body Problem" story, I was worried that the result would suffer from "sequel syndrome":  a publisher / fans pressuring the author to "make it a trilogy" with a disappointing third book, despite the tale having ended in a totally satisfying way with book two.  I'm delighted to report I was absolutely wrong, and that I enjoyed "Death's End" as much as, if not more than, "The Dark Forest" -- an extremely tough act to follow.  It's all hard sci-fi, but unlike anything else in the genre I have read: not only are the characters and scope of the story original and hard to forget, but Liu's inventive storytelling style turns the physics itself into one of the most fascinating players in the story.  There is plenty of meat to this story, and I'm now thoroughly enjoying a second read-through, as Liu has (purposefully?) written in many details which are only fully understandable later in the story (what does the opening tale about the witch in Constantinople have to do with anything? what does the fairy tale about the princess and the paintings mean? and what really drove Yang Dong in book one to suicide, anyway...)  As in Dark Forest, there's a chess-game like struggle with the Trisolarans, complete with human protagonists who make tough ethical choices, sometimes resolved in ways that surprise the Western reader.  Multiple universes, dark matter, lightspeed travel, coolest use of the planet Pluto, plus easily the coolest weapon of mass destruction I've seen in all of sci-fi.  I don't think a book 4 is possible, but at this point, I wouldn't put it past Mr. Liu.  Bravo!
第714条评论: I read the Chinese edition of all three books when they first came out a few years ago. The first two were amazing, and as I was reading Deaths end, I was in awe the whole time. I stayed up and finished the book in one night as I couldn't stop. I saw the grandest view of the universe beyond any imagination in this book.Now thanks to Ken Liu, the translator of the first and third books, and Joel Martinsen, the translator of the second, this trilogy has been brought to the English readers. I have the audible book of the first one, and now bought the third. I didn't read the second book in English so I cannot comment. Mr Ken Liu did an excellent job translating the first and third books. In a sense, I liked the English version a little better than the Chinese version in terms of choosing of words and narration style. But of course, big Liu (a fond nickname of Liu Cixin by the Chinese fans) has unparalleled imagination and extraordinary philosophical thoughts - this trilogy wouldn't exist if not for him, there's no doubt about it. The lack of depth in individual  characters, as already pointed out by some other reviews here, is a weakness of the trilogy, but it does not stop it from being the greatest hard sci-fi I've ever read. Clearly, the biggest character big Liu focused on building - and apparently did an extraordinary job with - is humanity as a whole.All in all, big Liu is my favorite sci-fi writer at all times together with Issac Asimov and I hope he will continue writing.
第715条评论: I was so excited for this book! It's crazy how much of a difference of scale there is from the beginning to the end of the series. Out of the three, I think this was the one that I liked least, but that's just because I really liked the tones and characters of The Dark Forest and The Three Body Problem. For me, there were just a lot less 'Oh hey, that's neat!' moments. Someone with a harder science background would probably get a little more out of the details, but a part of this whole series that I really liked is the more hard-sf ideas are explained in a way that lets you feel like you at least partly understand what's going on (again, this is from someone who has little academic background in the sciences). On its own, this book still gets 4 stars.**SPOILERS**One thing I didn't like is how the fairy tales don't get explained. I'm probably an idiot, and I saw some parallels in the main story and the fairy-tales, but I guess I would have liked more direct comparisons. It is explicitly stated that they're metaphors-within-metaphors-within...... , so they're not supposed to be interpreted literally, but they were so detailed that I was expected a lot more of the curious bits being unlocked. Like if He'ershingenmosiken was explained. And more information about what Yun Tianming's life was like after he was launched into space. I liked his character and was disappointed that he disappeared for so much of the book.
第716条评论: One of the best SF ever, it plots a universe that is outside of the realm of my imagination. After reading the second book in this trilogy, I began to worry about the future of earth in the dark universe, what would happen if the position is exposed to aliens? The dark forest gives a reasonable answer to the Fermi paradox, a cruel but relatively quiet universe; but here the author presents the universe in a more dark way, the one that I hope is not true: the universe is crueler than a forest, it is a battlefield, and the enemies are not waiting for us to show up, they are there looking for us. The advanced alien civilizations have no willing to help other civilizations with lower levels of science and technology; they only want to destroy these exposed civilizations to avoid any potential risks. After reading the death’s end, I now begin to worry about the Arecibo message…This book is not only full of ideas, but talks about love, responsibility, choice, and humanity. I like this book so much though it depicts a cruel ending. The hopeless feeling is not good, but I think this feeling in reading is the value of this book as a science fiction, after all, it is only a story, which demonstrates the worst case; and the future of the earth, I believe, will be much brighter if we could learn something from the book. In the end, I would like to quote the author’s aphorism, the one I like most (Page 497):“Weakness and ignorance are not barriers to survival, but arrogance is.”
第717条评论: I loved the first two books, and although a little slow, I liked the third one, up until the end.In this third installment of the trilogy, I loved the explanation for the fact that apart from the 3 dimensions + time, the others are collapsed, I loved the 4-dimenstional shenanigans in the beginning, and I loved the Cubist fairy tales.However, the story arc is very, very unsatisfying. Lots of cool things happen, and then the story stops or changes direction. Wade has built light speed technology? Better kill that story line so we can do more hibernation. The second Trisolaran fleet had this epic battle - but we're not going to tell you anything about it... just that it was epic... They managed to make little pocket universes, but we're not telling you how they did it, or how they brought one over to the Blue Planet. Galactic humans established colonies, but yes, you guessed, never going to see them. 4-dimensional civilization encountered? Nope, not gonna revisit it apart from some cryptic conversation with its AI. Evil 4-dimensional-converted-to-3-dimensional aliens who drive the annihilation of the universe with dimensional strikes? Yep, not gonna mention or encounter them again. Love story between the main character and her brain-rehydrated lover? Yeah, they just miss each other by a few minutes/million years and he hooks up with her best friend. Final fate of main characters? You guessed! It stays a mystery! 10 dimensional "Eden" reborn universe that the main characters were going to visit? Oh, never mind, we're going to save a few kilograms worth of mass, we don't really want to see it that bad...Let's not forget the main character aka "Chosen One" - a spoiled brat princess who's responsible for two counts of genocide against her own people. But it's cool though, she did it out of love, both times.Oh, and the message of the book? Generations upon generations of people, smart, motivated, full of passion, struggle heroically, die one by one, to finally ensure the highest expression of humanity's future: a fishbowl with two fish in it. Talk about depressing endings...The author is incredibly gifted with coming up with novel, creative, wonderful ideas. However, he should really collaborate with someone else on the story arc. If I could break it down, I would give one star for the story, 5 stars for the ideas.
第718条评论: One of the most difficult things about "hard science" SF is that many of the unique, ground-breaking physics ideas have been explored by prior writers, futurists and/or real-world theoretical physicists. Clearly, this trilogy contains echoes and whispers from all three groups. But it also contains a fresh set of physical theories that hold together within the context of the author-built universe. FTL travel and effects, characteristics of dimension changes, "physics as a weapon" are only a few.The trilogy was not without it's problems, however. The characters, for the most part, were weakly developed and one-dimensional. The last female protagonist would not be my first choice to carry forward our genotype and clearly she doesn't exhibit anything close to the heroic qualities that many of us admire. We might have done better with a lottery.The physics hung together, for the most part. However, I was promised (by Chinese readers) a resolution of the physics supporting perpendicular vector changes for the "teardrop" in novel 3. It wasn't there. There were other physical phenomena mentioned, then quickly glossed over. I mention this only to let the readers of this review know that, while this was a great novel, it wasn't perfect. It has holes. Whether that is important to you or not, you may judge for yourself.My initial thoughts after reading the book is that it has successfully accomplished what most authors strive for: a change in the readers' perceptions of the external world and a reconsideration of the belief constructs of the readers' inner worlds. I would have to say that Remembrance, is the best hard science fiction trilogy that I've read in the last 30 years from a science perspective, with Book 3 being the best of the lot.
第719条评论: Amazing mindblowing book. You won’t look at the world the same after. The epitome of hard science fiction, cixin liu is a gift to literature.
第720条评论: Liu Cixin is one of the best writers of sci-fi around today!  The three book trilogy is a great story, and this book is the third and last in the series.  Makes me wish there was another three books in the series!  Excellent blend of sci-fi and realistic human reaction to extraordinary events.  My highest recommendation!  Don't let the translation from Chinese into English give you any concern,  the translation is amazingly easy to follow.  Footnotes are added that provide context when regional insights are important.  I will be first in line to purchase Liu Cixin's next book!
第721条评论: Never in my 75 years have I read a more impressive collection of novels.  Cixin Liu has integrated the entire breath of human knowledge into this fascinating and thought provoking tale.How one person can master such a range of fields from science to esthetics, history to the future, over a span of billions of years is nothing short of a wonder.The Three Body Problem trilogy is a tour de Force of the first magnitude.
第722条评论: It has been a long time since I've read hard sci fi. Eight more words to meet the minimum, eh?
第723条评论: At this point I was mesmerized and bewildered by what was happening between the pages of this closing chapter of the series.Death’s End is strange and more philosophical than the rest and it demands more from the reader. It’s dark and sad and extremely interesting. Wish I could read the series again without knowing it. I want more books like these.
第724条评论: This trilogy started with the cultural revolution. It ended with the end of the universe. This third part was not only the most extensive in terms of time, but also in evaluating what it is to be human.This was an amazing trilogy.
第725条评论: I enjoyed both "The Three Body Problem" and "The Dark Forest" but I didn't find either of them to be truly spectacular. I love science fiction that really dives into cosmic big picture stuff (Dune and the Ender series are favorites) and I didn't feel like either of the first 2 books in this series hit that mark. "Death's End" however, explores so many mind-blowing ideas and weaves them together into a beautifully written epic narrative. For me it was orders of magnitude better than the other 2 books in the series and I consider it among my all time favorites.
第726条评论: A great trilogy. It started in the 1960's with a reaching out to other planets... and ends far in the future. There are several puzzling questions presented in a fairytale, that must be answered in order to save humanity. The Trisolarians and the sophons - even become outdatedIt really extends far beyond  - ions into the future... way beyond what we see as possible todayI think it is a book that I will spend a lot of time coming back to
第727条评论: The scope of this series is truly an achievement in and of itself. This last book is a tour of some of the most grand concepts implied by our current understanding of the universe taken to their logical conclusion.
第728条评论: Quite a different read than western SF.Much more focused on human nature, much less on technical details. Immense timescale, and immense imagination. The dark forest theory, for me, is the best answer so far to Fermi paradox.I was not able to identify with the hero and her choices though - felt a slight disconnect reading the book, as well as the ending.Definitely interesting read, be prepared for something different than what you had before.
第729条评论: I'm torn about this, maybe it will require a re-reading, but I honestly was underwhelmed by Death's End, particularly when compared to the brilliant Three-Body Problem and The Dark Forest (my favorite). I did not find Cheng Xin to be a terribly sympathetic character, and I simmered with frustration as she basically doomed the Solar System and everyone in it twice over. You'd think someone would have figured never to put the fate of others in her hands. It was good to see Wallfacer Luo Ji in this novel, but he was also way too lenient on Cheng Xin.Towards the end, the novel got overstuffed with barely explained technologies and concepts, and the coincidences became just...way too much. But since it completes a trilogy, and one that I had enjoyed immensely up to this point, I had to read it to the end.
第730条评论: A wonderful ride through time and space. Massive in scale yet incredibly detailed. Epic in so many ways and just plain fun to read.
第731条评论: I loved the first book in this trilogy and rated it five stars. Unfortunately, the second book and this one grew more and tedious as they progressed. I found them slow, filled with endless philosophical ramblings, and increasingly unrealistic even for sci-fi set well into the future. Perhaps worst of all for me was the inescapable darkness and gloom that permeated the overarching story world.
第732条评论: Though I'm not a theoretical physicist, not even close, I have read enough hard sci-fi to realize the scope and breadth of this work. Like Baxter's works such as Evolution and  Vacuum Diagrams, time is no limitation.  The idea of light speed being diminished by gravitational constructs and the relationship between relativistic and static time frames might challenge ones understanding of such concepts and whether real or fantasy, fit into the expansive narative. This is my kind of science fiction. If you like hard sci-fi you will enjoy the 3 book series, this being the culmination.
第733条评论: Having discussed the Chinese and English versions with friends it was with interest to note that the English version was structured differently from the original and yet considered more logical in sequencing. A wonderful read that just kept surprising.
第734条评论: Love the explorations of theories and the immense span of worlds & civilisations created by Liu Cixin. A very enjoyable reading adventure.
第735条评论: Might spoil other SF for you.  Many concepts form dozens of my favorite books are maybe done just a bit better in this Trilogy.  Page turner - I read all three in 2 months.
第736条评论: Each book in the trilogy gets better and better. The final book gets better by the chapter until the final one when your mind explodes!
第737条评论: Superb end to a superb series, more than mere fiction to kill time.  Makes you think about your place in the grand scheme of things.
第738条评论: First two books were excellent and this one started off well. Just the direction chosen to finish the tale was a bit hard to engage with in my opinion. I look forward to Cixin Liu’s next work.
第739条评论: Lost for words to describe the scope and scale of this trilogy. Although I'd love to have more from Cixin Liu's universe, I'm quite happy about the amount he gave us.
第740条评论: Probably one of the best books I have ever read.  The prose is beautiful, simple yet enthralling, and you are drawn into the atmosphere of the book.  Definitely kept me up at night thinking after I finished reading it
第741条评论: The saga continues, but in a larger, grander scale than ever. Liu blends science and poetry, idealism and stark realism, grand vistas and intimate personal moments with a master's touch.
第742条评论: One of the most complex books composed to date. The best book in this genre ever written.
第743条评论: The space time traveling is less credible than in the 2 preceding books
第744条评论: This trilogy is the best thing I have read in a very long time.
第745条评论: The third book in Cixin Liu's trilogy is a tour de force if you are interested in hardcore science fiction and great story telling.
第746条评论: Unlike the first book in the series, this one has weak charecters and a loose plot...reads more like a description of multidimensional space and space environments than a novel.
第747条评论: I love the story! I love the author!
第748条评论: Probably best and most important sci fi book of past 3 years.
第749条评论: Loved every word, every character, every sub plot and every book. Would recommend this book to all sci fi readers.
第750条评论: Great book and translation overall, but why leave Chinese characters in names? They mean nothing to me. Just put the name in phonetically.
第751条评论: Not that often you come across a trilogy that leaves you feeling like the author really gave you the complete story.This one doesn't leave you lacking.
第752条评论: Still reading. Having a hard time putting it down.
第753条评论: This is a very good book.
第754条评论: Science fiction at it's highest level!
第755条评论: Review
第756条评论: ‘Death’s End’ is the final volume in  Cixin Liu’ trilogy that started with the Three-Body Problem. The Earth is threatened by the invasion of the Trisolarians. The two races have reached a stalemate when the humans have proposed to end both races by broadcasting the locations of each races worlds. This broadcast would triggered the Dark Forest destruction of the home worlds. Events progress and a second fleet of Trisolarians are launched towards Earth. How will the human race survive.There is a lot of events packed into this final volume of the story, and this book covers millions of years in time. The availability of hibernation helps transport our main characters forward hundreds of years to move the story quickly through many centuries. This final volume focuses on Cheng Xin. She takes on many roles during the course of this book. From scientist, SwordHolder, running Halo, and more. She finds herself in the position, multiple times, to make the critical decision that could save the humans. Will she? Can she?Liu has created a very detailed story, heavy in science. Particularly in astrophysics. Space travel, light speed, muli-dimensional space, and more are included in the story and in some cases in detail. It adds depth to the story and I enjoyed it. I recommend this set of books, but would note that the story does get heavy in science. That being said the story does not require the reader to be a scientist to enjoy it.
第757条评论: Best Sci-Fi I've read since Arthur Clarke.
第758条评论: Great story.
第759条评论: As said I heard about this on the YouTube channel Quinton reviews and had to check it out, not being a reader I ordered the audiobook and I'm very happy
第760条评论: 11 stars.
第761条评论: What a great, mind bending story!
第762条评论: This whole series is amazing and should be read by everyone.
第763条评论: This story reaches levels of depth I've never seen in one book before. The author does an amazing job of balancing the cosmic with the personal. This book in the trilogy deserves a second or even third read.
第764条评论: This is about the whole trilogy.  It is not a page turner, but it is so expansive and imaginative, so intelligently written.  I highly recommend it.
第765条评论: This third book in the Three Body Trilogy took me to a universe I could not possibly imagine. The intricate weaving of advanced science, future predictions, politics, the nature of humans and even children's literature is beyond anything I have read before. I loved the amazing detail presented in every age and era the book took me through. Thank you Liu Cixin
第766条评论: The middle book was terrific. The third is less engaging. I do not wish to drop any spoilers but the ultimate scope of the plot seemed to me to over reach.
第767条评论: Worth the read. One of the most creative takes on what it means to be human and deal with the universe I've ever read.
第768条评论: The most creative and well-written sci-fi I've read in a long time. The scope of the plot line is tremendous once it all unfolds.  The author's mainland Chinese perspective adds a unique perspective as well. The whole trilogy is excellent, start with The Three Body Problem which I had a hard copy of.
第769条评论: This is on the same level as Death's end - incredibly imaginative and haunting. I still think about this book daily after reading it a year ago. I cannot recommend this enthusiastically enough.
第770条评论: A grand and epic masterpiece!  Told so differently than anything else I have read, such elegant story telling.  Grand scale and concepts, truly an epic story.  The universe is a scary, cruel and merciless place if this story is any indication.
第771条评论: One of the most sweeping works of science fiction I've ever read,and also one of the most heart wrenching. This is highly recommended but hold safe to your heart lest this story break it over and over.
第772条评论: Great book. Read all three. Very good series.
第773条评论: The first two books in this trilogy are fantastic, so I was primed for the finale, but it was disappointing.  Whereas the other two books featured clever, technology-enhanced, plot twists, Liu seemed to have run out of gas for this final installment.  The future history of the first two books shed light on the human condition, but this one, not so much, as we deal with more alien races, more death, and more time jumps.  That, plus a multi-century romance that never really seems to gel.  Fans of the first two books should read this one, to see how the whole system of sophons, hibernation, etc. ends, but lower your expectations.
第774条评论: Why why why did it have to end? What a trip. All good things must come to an end. It was a fantastic conclusion to an incredibly all-encompassing universe of an epic tale. I want to read it in the original. But I'm so glad there is this transliteration. Much respect to the audio book team!  I listened to the books daily as I traversed my amazing city of New York. The descriptions of future cities merged with my awareness of my surroundings to enhance my experience.
第775条评论: Fantastic scifi - smart, complex and entertaining.
第776条评论: Demon marketing - had to enter something here to exit ...qwerty 9 more words reqd! Reqd. Reqd reqd reqd reqd finished!!
第777条评论: That I’ve ever read. Simply the best. I will miss these characters so much. It’s rare that an author can make the reader both hate and love his characters so much. But that was done here and done poetically.
第778条评论: One of the best books that I ever read. Reading the three series books is like climbing to the skies. The first one is superb and the impact of the second and the third are much more
第779条评论: The story is still interesting but I didn't experience the same awe as when the dark forest concept was revealed in previous book. But there are many good ideas - I loved the fairytales cryptic messages idea, dimensions reduction and many more... And it's not quite common in literature to see humanity's a.. being kicked so hard, I enjoyed this narrative too.
第780条评论: A glimpse into the Chinese psyche. A journey starting with the Chinese cultural revolution and ending with the big bang. Gigantic in imagination and scope. But, you must begin with the 3 body problem. Enjoy!
第781条评论: This trilogy was my first toe-dip into science fiction. I loved not only the creative futuristic aspects of society depicted (all based on current technology trends/theories), I appreciated the inclusion and continuity of the on-going struggle over the tyranny of religious zealots and populism that have threatened civil societies throughout history.
第782条评论: Death's End is a brilliantly creative endeavor. Liu still managed to surprise and impress me even after being impressed with his creativity from the first two Rememberance of Earth's Past books.If you want mind-blowing concepts in your SciFi, this is for you.
第783条评论: Spoilers ahead.I had to finish what I started with the first two books. To give the man credit, the author has a brilliant imagination. The central problem with this novel is that his core lead character is irredeemable and the message is a bitter pill indeed. The lead had two chances to save humanity and chose, because of her 'maternal' instincts, in the end, to get everyone but her and few others killed. Or rather, flattened. The metaphors are not lost on this and choices in Chinese society, but my god this woman is boring and the novel is so centered around her fecklessness, that you want to scream. At the end, I was hoping Sophon would use the Katana on her.  And of course, the brute American is vaporized by lasers in the end. What a waste. Great imagination, bad story. The Chinese censors must have been so proud...
第784条评论: Stunning conclusion to the trilogy. If you liked the first two books, you’ll love this one as well.
第785条评论: This book series provides a wondrous exploration of the potential challenges of other intelligent life in the universe existing, and this final chapter is a meaningful and disquieting ending to that exploration. Worth finishing the series if you started. Worth starting if you haven't.
第786条评论: The combination of Chinese author and astoundingly clear translation, provided a science fiction work that holds the reader from page 1.  The battle of mainly American pollyanna philosophy that the Universe is benign versus a nihilistic philosophy of the Dark Forest is The Battle whose winner is to be determined.
第787条评论: New ideas flood to the point of overwhelming everything. And while that flood precludes what I personally like: a great character driven story; this book is well worth the read for the novelty alone.
第788条评论: The first two books were great. Based almost entirely on if not real, at least reasonable technology and science. The second half of this book completely jumped the shark into the realm of the ridiculous. It felt like the author didn't know how to end it, so just put together the most ludicrous events he could come up with. Pretty disappointing after the first two enjoyable entries.
第789条评论: 4.5! One of the best SF books I've read in thepast 5 years.  I hésitated betwen a 4 and a 5 but I found the main character a bit annoying/whiney at times and the end a bit lame.
第790条评论: I had such a great time reading the Remembrance of Earth trilogy. Its rich and enticing universe is so unique and provocative that it really stands out as one of the greatest works in science fiction of all time. A must read
第791条评论: I'm an avid sci-fi reader and I thought there was nothing in the genre that could surprise me. I was SO wrong. This trilogy is amazing, and the last book is the best of the three.It can be read as a standalone, but it's more enjoyable after reading the previous two.If you like "technical" sci-fi (non-fantasy, with some Physics & Astronomy in it) it's a must-read.
第792条评论: This series is a sequence of seemingly impossible challenges that the astonishing imagination of the author solves, only to lead to another potential disaster. The translation is so smooth that it is often hard to realize that you are not reading the author’s own words. I can’t praise this work too highly.
第793条评论: Not what I expected, but in hindsight I should have known better. Unlike about 99% of hard space sci-fi, this universe is populated and dangerous. Humanity is upbeat, silly, and doomed. So is everything else.Some of the physics is stretching things a bit, but if you buy into the rules of the universe nothing to crazy. The characters are believable and somewhat likeable. It's certainly an end.
第794条评论: Deaths End provided a fitting end for one of the greatest science fiction stories ever told. Cixin Liu has so many amazing ideas that he's able to toss them aside at will, in favor of something new. The result is the story doesn't get old, or become predictable. New characters and new dilemmas keep arising just as one terrify concern is resolved, something new and fascinating replaces it. Incredible story telling, all around.
第795条评论: This final piece of the trilogy offers a flood of interesting hard-sci-fi concepts loosely strung together on a decent plot-line. Probably enough to fill out several independent series, but a thrill like accelerating through a futuristic Worlds Fair to experience all at once. The overarching theme is a plausible game-theory hypothesis about the Fermi Paradox, but there are wonderful inventions and speculations throughout. Among the very the best sci-fi I've read.
第796条评论: Cixin Liu’s Dark Forest trilogy is that exceedingly rare gift to long time SF readers, a completely novel and non-derivative story. And what a plot! Aliens, AI, interstellar war, light speed travel; it’s all here. But what makes these books memorable is Liu’s view of the universe as utterly hostile, more than I could have ever imagined. Read it. Your idea of the universe will be changed.
第797条评论: I lived with this series for three months! Stoping only to make it take longer to read! As a student of Chinese history and language it has been a beautiful experience hearing (in my mind's voice) Sino-futruism as it transverses millennia. I'm am eternally greatfull to Mr. Liu Cixin for this peice, and opening my eyes not only to the genre but allow us all a glimpse into the Universe. I can't wait to read it in Chinese!
第798条评论: A mind-bending sci-fi experience that defies all expectation, Death's End is a challenging yet incredibly rewarding book. It will ask you to consider the concepts of reality, space, time, and life itself on a universal scale. I'm blown away by what Cixin Liu has accomplished with the Remembrance of Earth's Past series. You will experience new worlds, new forms of life, new dimensions, and even new planes of existence as you travel along with these characters through a past outside of time.
第799条评论: Liu Cixon brings his Three-Body Problem trilogy to an exciting close. Covering a terrifying vast scale in both space and time, this is by far my favorite science fiction novel, for both the authors attention to "hard science fiction" details and for his noble characters who yet again embody our finest traits. His protagonists are once again, in the face of unimaginable tragedy, resolute, self-sacrificing, and compassionate. He evokes the best of mankind, and we can only hope that our future is as noble and erudite as he paints it.
第800条评论: Wow. Mind blown. Best sci-fi book I've read in a long, long, long time. First book was good, starts off slow. Second book in series picks up the pace, gets exciting. Death's End takes it to the next level, powerful and well executed. I wouldn't be surprised if the series gets its own Series on Amazon or Netflix some day.  I don't want to ruin the ending for people.. so... I'll end here.
第801条评论: The Dark Forrest could have easily made this a lovely two book series, instead we spend the first portion of this novel being shown the information that made parts of book 2 so wonderful. I think this novel starts stronger than it ends but throughout, its concepts around dimensions, math, and physics let me thinking about things I hadn’t oft/ever considered. What a wild ride.
第802条评论: Cixin Liu asks a philosophical question we should ponder: what would humans be willing to do for themselves when they face the ultimate challenge?I find myself continually measuring the actions of different characters with what I think my own responses might be. It is a challenge and a terrificWorld to explore. It is a thinking person's book but well worth the time. If I had to start over, I would do it in a heartbeat! Love this tale!!!
第803条评论: A great feat of imagination, very thoughtful. Maybe due to translation, the pace is somewhat uneven, but the various twists and sheer scale of imagination are truly worth it.
第804条评论: Very imaginative, and especially interesting because the concepts and voice, originating from a Chinese author, are very different from what we are used to in Western science fiction novels. The entire trilogy (The Three Body Problem, The Dark Forest, and Death's End) were all exciting and enjoyable books.
第805条评论: I don't know if I have ever read a book that is more captivating and truly mindblowing. The scope of the work and the sheer genius required to imagine it is astonishing.  While the first two books in the series were excellent, this one is something special and apart.
第806条评论: I once read a review Liu's writings that compared them to Asimov's, in the sense that they more about the ideas than the stories. I agree. Death's End is a book that will make you try to imagine unimaginable things. It's science fiction that treats physics like philosophy.
第807条评论: This is, in my opinion, the best of the Three-body trilogy. This time, Cixin Liu stretches the reader's imagination  to the limit.After reading this book I ended doubting if I will ever find another that could go further into the most unexplored possibilities of the Cosmos.
第808条评论: all three books are amazing. great plot, vision, and interlocking character development. Also a slightly scary, yet mind-opening perspective on a potential future of humanity and the universe(s).
第809条评论: Very fulfilling final installment to this trilogy. Over all it has to be considered one of the greatest science fiction trilogies of all time. Amazing ideas, adventures, and philosophical musings. Not an easy read though. Highly recommended.
第810条评论: I have never reviewed a book, until now, but this is probably the most enjoyable Science Fiction book I have ever read. One must read the two earlier tomes in this trilogy to fully appreciate the complexity of the story and imagination of the author.Just read it.
第811条评论: Cixin Liu's writing appears to have a synergistic effect on this brilliant trilogy. With the Three-Body Problem as its base, each book builds upon the last to create an ever grander perspective. In the end, the scale of Death's End grants the reader an extraordinary conclusion. Highly recommended.
第812条评论: The breadth of this series is spectacular. Starting at a singular point and expanding outward, the story encapsulates the relatively miniscule scope of humanity within this universe. But also illustrates the grand nature of the universe, with all of its constants. Well worth reading!
第813条评论: I really enjoyed the other 2 books in the series but this was a bit of an anti climax. Very repetitive and quite tedious in many sections. Yes I understand you are describing 3D versus 2D universes, different speeds of light etc - understand, got it, move on. This alone would save half the book but the narrative wallows in such things over and over.Tbh I wish I'd stopped at book 2 - then i would have a great story running around in my head.Now I just feel like I've spent 10 hours in a high school physics class with a 15 minute course presented repeatedly by Ferris Buellers teacher.
第814条评论: The story is a trip across space and time. It takes you through so many ideas by the end that your head will be spinning.
第815条评论: Spoilers alert.This book feels like an extension of the previous two where, instead of continuing the storyline in the same fashion, the author decides to get more experimental and let various thought-provoking scenarios play out. Figuring out the theories and interpretations before they are revealed became my favorite part of reading this trilogy.However, there were two serious errors that the protagonist made, and I felt the author did not make a serious effort to allow us to really empathize with nor forgive her. After those, I felt a bit disengaged. If the lesson was that decisions made by human society several centuries from now would feel alien to us, it certainly got the point across.All in all, if you’re interested in the cosmic future of human civilization, it’s one of the books that will stay with you for a long time.
第816条评论: By the time you get to the end of Death’s End, and Cixin Lu’s masterpiece of a trilogy, you don’t want an ending, even death’s.Stylistically, Lu’s writing ranges from informational to poetic. He skillfully uses literary devices and techniques, referencing a book by one of the characters, inserting vitally significant fairy tales loaded with contextual clues that determine the fate of earth and the solar system, and weaves it together in the over arching narrative.While the story seems to falter, at least for me, near the finish, it almost seems fitting because, how can there be an ending when the very nature of the world Lu has created does not end.Cixin Lu’s brilliant trilogy (The Three Body Problem, The Dark Forest, and Death’s End) is a must read, not only for science fiction fans, but for the intellectually curious, and for readers who appreciate a good story told well.Jeffrey Penn May, author of Roobala Take Me Home
第817条评论: , Where the River Splits, Cynthia and the Blue Cat’s Last Meow, No Teacher Left Standing, Eight Billion Steps: My Impossible Quest for Cancer Comedy, Finding Your Fiction, and more.
第818条评论: Death's End (Hardcover) by Liu CixinWow. What ride this series has been! And in this, the last installment of the trilogy, the scope has become very 'universal" indeed! The characters drive the story along, and we see our humanity define, and redefine itself along the way. This time, our fly on the wall is a young engineer from the Common Era (the same era we live in). Cheng Xin is thrust into making several key decisions that for better or worse, affect the entirety of mankind. No pressure there. She felt, after making each of those decisions that she did not choose wisely.The Trisolarians, however, are very complicit in the background of her decision making process. And they don't play fair. It almost seems as if time itself is against our species, even tho we can hibernate away for centuries. The rest of our entourage of characters appears, and disappears as events need.This book does close the storyline in a most appropriate manner. The clever writing can not be stressed enough, as you keep coming across twists, turns, and even roadblocks. But Time marches on, and so does the story. How it marches on is the story!
第819条评论: Most satisfying sci-fi read in many years.  At the end of this third of three books,I felt like I was at the end of a journey into the future.  A story of science; despair and hope, of patience and ideas.  A story of scope told through narrow lives.  Whole chapters felt like tangential wanderings became the storylines, essential material that required effort to extract.A Chinese author who conveys glimpses of his cultural roots and an array of science and scientific thought.  Liu provides an interpretation of one  possible future as a historian might, not as a futurist per se.  He plays out one possible, bounding future, powered by science whenever possible.Liu has compassion for those making decisions.  His view of our future selves is recognizable.  We are bound by the same concerns. Some will face chaos and make choices and sacrifices where doing right things may be wrong.  Science, hope and love.  Like a honest historian, the author admits his viewpoint, a given that we will face unimaginable choices in the future, but the decisions will be understandable as they are in this imagined context.
第820条评论: Incredible book. The previous two books in this trilogy can be hard to read sometimes, because narration and character development take such a backseat to the awe-inspiring plot. If you felt that too, then this will be your favorite book of the series. It basically mostly does away with any attempt at character development or traditional storytelling and just floods you with exhibition-type plot. But what a plot it is. When the first book was about the nature of a conflict between two civilizations, and the second book leveled it up to the nature of conflict between all civilizations in the universe, then this final book takes it all the way, to the nature of conflict between different universes, at the most fundamental level. It creates a crazy kind of meta-realism by imagining how you would weaponize the laws of physics and then spending pages on how that would actually look and feel. The only bummer is that it takes it so far that logically, there really can't be another book to follow this one (and not because the main character dies or something, pretty much the opposite). Wow.
第821条评论: No question the physics and philosophical dimensions of the THREE BODY PROBLEM series, especially in this epic third volume, places Cixin Liu  right next to Asimov in terms of scope and galactic scale.I believe Steven Hawking's warning about hiding our civilization is starkly warranted by the honesty of  mathematics. Yet I have a faint a remembrance of joy after having read The Foundation Series; perhaps despite the fogged lens of memory and fading neurons, I'm on to something.I believe what sets the two authors apart is akin to comparing two great cinematographers over the disadvantage of time.I prefer the bokeh shrouding Asimov's characters(who could forget Harry Seldom and the Mule?);Lin's characters are joyless people in a plane where love is an emotionless contract terminated by relief. This may reflect Liu's power plant engineering  upbringing(nerd).However cultural differences may lie within the marrow of  each  civilizational philosophical milieu, seeded eons reflected in the writing. The problem occurs when editorial marketing minions force a Hollywood solution to the characters. With the exception of the chain smoking policeman , everyone else seemed robotic playmates of ms.Siphon. Never mind  the committee of global editors. 5 stars
第822条评论: Cixin Liu has some interesting ideas but ultimately has a very bleak outlook on society, the universe, and everything. For me science fiction is at its best when celebrating human ingenuity and hope.
第823条评论: An enjoyable science fiction book that pushes the boundaries of physics and time in an engaging narrative. The human conflicts and societal challenges presented are real - and help bring forward an understanding of what stops us as humanity to go further.
第824条评论: Um, I don't even know where to start.  Just know that the scale and scope of this book is beyond what you have in mind.  I assure you.
第825条评论: This review is for the entire trilogy (The Three Body Problem, The Dark Forest, and Death's End). Despite starting the series with great anticipation, on the recommendation of a trusted science, and science fiction, fan/friend, only determination, not desire, allowed me to complete it. Admittedly, it's been some months since I finished the third installment, as my reluctance to give a poor review has delayed this writing, and so some details are fuzzy. In general, I found the characters difficult to connect with, and I don't recall a single strong character who is present throughout the telling, around whom the reader can organize the story arc. The writing overall is often more science than fiction; as an avid reader of science non-fiction, I could follow the story as the physics moved into extra dimensions, but the fiction part, the story being told, was not engaging enough to hold my interest. While I can understand how these books could be very appealing to a reader, I guess this time, I am not that reader.
第826条评论: I thought that Death’s End was too drawn out. Regardless, these three books are super. The translation is absolutely superb.
第827条评论: Just read it.
第828条评论: That was a fulfilling end to an excellent trilogy. All my usual reasons for enjoying a good novel- often likable, characterful characters whose "company" is part of the joy of the novel; excellent plotting and dialogue- also here a fine mixture of really interesting (mostly hard?) science, thought-worthy philosophy, characters with real love of art and the arts--anyway, yes, I found it a pleasure to read. I try to be sparing with 5* but they seem right right.
第829条评论: This book is indescribable. It's rare for me to read a book and truly come across something I did not expect; Cixin Liu managed to surprise me several times. This book is a perfect example of taking what we know about science and extrapolating to create something fantastic.
第830条评论: great read. loved all three books especially the last one
第831条评论: A mind blowing end to a fantastic trilogy. Cannot recommend these books enough. If you're looking for fresh perspectives in sci-fi that incorporates a lot of science then this is the book for you!
第832条评论: I absolutely loved the first two books in Cixin Liu's "Remembrance" series where Liu introduced readers to unique and creative concepts that forced them to stretch their imaginations in order to keep up with the story. The first half of "Death's End" led readers to anticipate a climactic confrontation on a galactic scale only to abandon them with a totally depressing and unanticipated ending. For a writer who was raised on the classics of Western science fiction, Liu did not live up to his own lofty standard.
第833条评论: The story is very schizophrenic. It reads/listens like the most overly-details history book. The characters are one dimensional "explainers" with no personality. I think some of this is an artifact of the translation from Chinese. I enjoyed the trilogy overall, but by the end of the third book (actually about 75% of the way through it) I couldn't wait for it to end.
第834条评论: Thought provoking, imaginative and powerful concepts. Learnt a lot. Atypical sci-fi. Not just blowing up things but actually painting a new concept.
第835条评论: The third book in the Three Body Problem trilogy is even better than the first two. Everyone should read this trilogy and broaden their horizons beyond our tiny sphere of action.
第836条评论: I really wanted to love this book but I couldn't. I thought the first two were very good but this one , not so much. Greatly disappointed.
第837条评论: Great book ending was not quite what I was expecting ....
第838条评论: This is definitely a writer I'm going to be following.
第839条评论: Seriously complicated, brilliant, amazing and unforgettable. Best sci fi series I’ve ever read. Gorgeous writing.
第840条评论: This is my favorite of the trilogy.  No spoilers just read it.  Amazing thinking and beautiful story.  Well worth your time.
第841条评论: Really enjoyed this book. Weaves physics and Sci fi into a rollercoaster ride of a story and a fitting conclusion to the trilogy.
第842条评论: This has been an amazing and thrilling ride. It is by far one of the best science fiction books I've ever read and I have read some.
第843条评论: excellent finale. another achievement by Cixin Liu. After the awesomeness of the Dark Forest, Death's End pushes the envelope and is just really really so so good. impressively so
第844条评论: This whole series is excellent. I would recommend it to everyone that has about 20 hours to kill.
第845条评论: TOO BAD TRILOGY HAS FINISHED. BEST AND MOST INTELLIGENT SCI-FI  I'VE EVER READ I'M 69 AND HAVE READ A LOT.
第846条评论: Writer is a genius!
第847条评论: Excellent Science Fiction and despite the overall theme of humanity vs. the rest (of the galaxy) very unpredictable.
第848条评论: This trilogy is awesome for any science fiction lover.
第849条评论: Imaginative anx perhaps timely. Not an easy read, nut thought provoking and worth the effort.
第850条评论: The entire trilogy is incredible!!! Some of the best sci fi I have ever seen.
第851条评论: Wild and creative ideas throughout the book. Excellent Sci-Fi but maybe a few pages too long.
第852条评论: A different cultural perspective and an interesting end to the series.  Enjoyed this book less than the second volume.
第853条评论: an easy read, awesome!
第854条评论: Stellar end of the trilogy. Interesting take on the protagonist but ultimately satisfying.
第855条评论: Most amazingly relevant, enticing sci do book ever if you know current astrophysics, politics and world history.  A true master piece but you have to do the trilogy.
第856条评论: Really FINE 'hard' science fiction with amazing scope and great characterization! Be sure you're getting the English translation unless you read Chinese.
第857条评论: It would be nice if we continue this series.  Engaging & enjoyable read throughout.It is a thoughtful and thought provoking series (esp. on the 2nd and the 3rd book in the series).
第858条评论: Liu takes you into an amazing, mind-bending future where new laws of science have been discovered.
第859条评论: This last book in Remembrance of Earth's Past is an amazing and fitting conclusion to one of the most imaginative sci-fi epics ever written.
第860条评论: 1st two books in the series were amazing. Spoiler alert. The 3rd was good but I didn’t love the mini universe concept. Definitely recommend the series.
第861条评论: Excellent, though following THE THREE BODY PROBLEM is a very difficult task.
第862条评论: This book was even better than the first two in the trilogy.  A real page turner and great story.  Reminds me of Asimov, but in a completely new way rather than being cheaply derivative.
第863条评论: As good as any of the classics of the American Golden Age - Stranger in Strange Land, Childhoods End, Azimovs Foundation. Truly exceptional and a critique of the modern habit of judging the past through today's lens
第864条评论: Not to heavy, love the hard cover, good (not high) paper quality. I bought it as a gift and the person loved it!! It was aligned with his current books collection.
第865条评论: A major disappointment which doesn't live up to the potential and promise of the first two books. I waited for this book for many months and began reading in on Kindle within hours of its release. Three Body Problem and Dark Forest were shocking and revelatory but by the conclusion of Death's End I just didn't care anymore. Like the first two books there are a handful of major plot points which are extremely impactful when they occur but the entirety of the remainder of the book, including the ending, is filled with characters and situations which are just not worth caring about. If you want the ultimate in deus ex machina read on but otherwise just stop with Dark Forest.
第866条评论: One of a kind science fiction.
第867条评论: Well thought out and loaded with the type of theoretical and solid science that makes sci-fi interesting. I highly recommend this series.
第868条评论: The third book starts a bit slower and takes a while to blow your mind, but it eventually does. This series is truly something else. It will be decades before we get something as expansive, creative, smart and deep as this.
第869条评论: As a physicist and lifetime science fiction reader, I consider DEATH'S END to be high on any list of all time great science fiction. It is exceptionally generous in imaginative, and maybe one day true science.
第870条评论: Death's End, the final book in the Three Body Problem trilogy, does not disappoint. It offers thrilling action, compassionate insight on being, and thought provoking meditations on dimensionality both physical and metaphorical.Further, it offers a fascinating view of Chinese thinking about political science and culture.
第871条评论: H O L Y - G U A C A M O L E.This might be my favourite book of all time.
第872条评论: This final trilogy installment is the perfect wrap up, expanding far beyond the limits of the two prior stories. All in all, I cannot find anything to compare these stories to outside of Asimov's foundation. Thank you to both the author for your incredible tapestry and the translator for displaying it.
第873条评论: I read a lot of hard science fiction. Read everything from Clarke to Asimov, Robinson, Niven. Liu has moved into the top 5 favorite hard sci fi authors with Deaths End. Better than Three Body Problem, better than Dark Forest. This trilogy is as epic as Dune and Foundation. Nebula Award please!
第874条评论: How the hell do you even review a book like this???? It's mind-bogglingly mind-blowing!​ This is my favourite book of the Remembrance of the Earth's Past trilogy and the only thing I don't like about it is that it's the final one. Wow, what a ride this has been!I won't recap the book. If you've read "The Three-Body Problem and The Dark Forest" you know what it's about. If you've not read them, you don't know what you're missing out on! I know science fiction isn't for everyone, and this is some serious science fiction, not for the faint of heart. Lots of physics and explanations of things such as moving about in other dimensions, creating mini universes, and slowing down the speed of light, things which made even my head spin at times. It was utterly thrilling to read!It's obvious English is not the original language and at times the writing feels awkward. Normally, that would put me off a book. However, these books are so freaking amazing that I could not care less about that! I don't think it's the fault of the translator; I think it's due to the different writing styles and dialogue of Eastern and Western writers/speakers.This space-aged saga is easily one of the best I've ever read and probably the most imaginative, spanning millions of years and many universes. It is monumental. Liu Cixin is brilliant and this trilogy is truly out of this world. Highly recommend!
第875条评论: I really enjoyed the end of the trilogy that began with "The Three Body Problem." The whole series took a number of twists and turns that pressed human civilization in a number directions. The author showed the pressures exerted on humans at both the macro and micro level. Individuals and whole societies were tested. Without giving anything away, the conclusion to "Death's End" demonstrated the roles resilience, luck, and cooperation play in determining fate. A great and thought provoking read!
第876条评论: It's been a long while since I've been wowed with the works from luminaries such as Asimov. This series has so many big ideas woven into a cogent and entertaining story that it ruins any other sci-fi books that I haven't read.The less you know about it, the better. Cixin Liu constructed the narrative as a collection of mystery/thriller with mind-boggling clues and satisfying answers wrapped in hard sci-fi high concepts.This book suffers as the last book syndrome. It is the least "stable" book of the three. It veers wildly between the highest high and lowest low of the trilogy. What's up with the overlong fairy tale and quizzing the school kids? But who can argue with the dizzying implications  of Galaxy Humans?That last paragraph shouldn't dissuade you from reading it. The trilogy is just so ambitious that it can't help to be unstable as it's stacking all the crazy building blocks once you reached a certain height and I'm amazed that it's still standing.Lastly, read the chapter titled "The Staircase of Responsibility" and think of how you can apply that to your own life and career. It's a perfect answer the next time an interviewer ask you "Where do you see yourself 5 years from now?" Or some other equally similar trite questions.
第877条评论: Death’s End is a good final book for the “Three Body Problem” trilogy. Good plot, keeps you interested, etc. However, I am still puzzled by the may Mr. Liu managed some of the characters, I don’t understand his point... I understand that real life is not necessary a fairy tale (coincidence) and the pessimistic scenario is probably the most likely one but I think he could have delivered the story in a way that doesn’t put all the wrong on a few characters; that’s why I recommend the book, has a great plot, but I am not completely happy with it.
第878条评论: The best of the Three-Body Problem novels. Each section of the book got better and better - and brought in ideas and scenarios I could never imagine before today...
第879条评论: This was not the book I expected, and I had a hard time getting through it.  The first two books were amazing and the ending of Dark Forest really stuck with me for days.  I haven't seen such a masterpiece in ages.The complaints about this book are legitimate.  The main character is foolish, sentimental, constantly makes poor decisions, predictable.  I could go on and on.  Reading through the book is tiring because the story repeats itself over and over again to drill in a point in a very heavy handed manner.  Once you see this, the book makes more sense, so here it is:Society feminizes itself, becomes arrogant, which leads to downfall, where hope is found, and society claws its way back up to repeat the cycle.  This is not a new theme, but has been around for ages.  You may have heard it in historical circles as society wears wooden shoes as it ascends the stairs and silk slippers as it descends.The author is very pro masculinity, and throughout the book makes shining examples of Wade and other masculine characters while showing emotionality and sentimentality leading to ruin.  I am not supporting or condemning, just pointing out.There was a comment on another review that is very instructive in understanding the ending: The translation of the title in Chinese is actually "Angel of death lives forever."  IF this is true, then Xin is the angel of death.  She is the personified feminization that leads to tragedy.At the end of the book, when she leaves the Fish in the mini universe, that is the few atoms that will prevent the universe from contracting into a new 10 dimensional Eden.  The same pattern of sentimentality will lead to ruin.  She did it again.  The author even points it out by having the man think "Even one atom may prevent the universe from the big crush."Unlike book 2, which is a comedy.  The last book is a tragedy.  Once you understand this, the book seems to suck less.  After book 2 I was all jazzed up on humans winning the day.  But the author shifts gears and gives you the tragic side of book 2's heroic side.  Luoji becoming apart of the picture at the end symbolizes the death of this masculinity.I really did not like this book at first finish.  But after reading some reviews and thinking about it for a while, I realized it was better than I thought.  Once you realize it is a tragedy, and its purpose is there to show the nihilism, short sightedness, and sentimentality in humans, the book gets better.
第880条评论: The novel nicely rounds off Liu's trilogy by zooming back from the Earth-Trisolaris conflict and by revealing more about the universe in which this conflict is taking place. If you have read the two earlier books you should definitely read this. But I would rate this as the weakest book in the trilogy because it neither has the vivid characters of the second book nor did I find the central revelation to be as dramatic as the dark forest deterrence idea in the second book.
第881条评论: Consider a universe with infinite number of worlds with every inhabitant looking out for their own survival. With master of physics comes ultimate power, but only if you live long enough. The solution is wipe out your neighbor before they wipe you out. I enjoyed this book immensely. Forget the fantasy of Star Trek and face the realty of a universe based on science and survival.
第882条评论: Probably the best book of the series, although I enjoyed the historical context of the first book. The protagonist of Death's End is uninteresting and sometimes annoying but the science fiction is extremely imaginative and provoking. There are also many bittersweet moments which was refreshing. A fun read. Couldn't put the book down toward the end.
第883条评论: The series as a whole was amazing. Truly a science fiction classic. I felt like the third book, while still mind blowing, had an emotionally unsatisfying ending. Like the vastness of space and time, it made me feel empty. Otherwise, five stars.
第884条评论: Continuing the story from the last two books in the series while building on exciting concepts, Cixin Liu has tied together the best elements of Science Fiction and sees beyond the horizon where the future could take us. This is my first exposure to modern fiction from a Chinese author and the cultural elements add to the reading pleasure of this series.
第885条评论: Nice new book also good quality, i didnt receive it until today because i didnt have usps mailbox key as usps needs at least a month to prepare key
第886条评论: This book and in fact the entire series is a wondrous delight! The texture, the depth, and the attention to detail of this winding story of a civilization overtime was one of the best reads I have undertaken. I encourage you to read it, to savor it, to enjoy the depth and the understanding shared within.
第887条评论: Breathtaking achievement.  I am in awe of the authors skill in bringing his vision to readers.  His grasp of science and of human nature are exceptional.
第888条评论: Still good but not as good as the first two books
第889条评论: (No plot spoilers, just a quick thought) Not as good as the first two, and I honestly feel like it doesn't really fit with them either. The first half felt like it was leading twords something, and somewhat felt like it was a continuation of the first two books, then it made a 90° turn and left the ballpark completely. I plan on re-reading the whole trilogy in about a year to see if it all fits together better after a second read through.
第890条评论: Seemed a bit long at places but has a great beautiful ending . The prose are in places also very beautiful and poetic.
第891条评论: I really enjoyed this book, but it’s so long that I really found myself pushing through the last hundred pages just to be done. It’s an amazing trilogy though!
第892条评论: In this book nothing is white, nothing is black. I loved the characters, I was so frustrated with them, that I had to take pauses reading. The line between good and evil not only does not exist, but it is hard to tell what is good. And what is evil? Can love be evil? Can love be everything?
第893条评论: I wonder why it took me so long to get to reading these books (i.e. the Three-body problem trilogy). This is really fine SF, and grandiose, in the best sense of the word. Highly recommended for any fan of SF. Will read more of this author.
第894条评论: Towering achievement. If you haven't read this series, you're missing out! A must read.
第895条评论: I was very disappointed in this compared to the great story lines in the first two books. The story could have ended in the second Dark Forest, as it does have a conclusion to the wallfacer project. Wish I hadn't wasted my dollars on this one based on the first two books. There is not enough back stories to match the sticker price of this book.
第896条评论: This trilogy was absolutely spectacular, Liu,s mind is astonishing. Highly, highly recommended
第897条评论: Incredible story. Great SF
第898条评论: Loads of inivative ideas, a great SF book up there with the best.
第899条评论: Great book, very different perspective and sensibility from average Scifi books by western writers.
第900条评论: Very good books from a great author!
第901条评论: A worthy conclusion. A must read if you completed and enjoyed Dark Forest.
第902条评论: This trilogy is the best Science Fiction I have read since many years!
第903条评论: Absolutely amazing. Really ambitious, but the author managed to pull it off
第904条评论: If you love having science give you a headache whilst making you think at the same time, then this is the series for you.
第905条评论: Excellent novel.
第906条评论: Fantastic series and volume. Highly original trilogy.
第907条评论: Cixin Liu, in his Three Body series, has restructured sci-fi in an astounding manner. Standard notions of time, space and narrative arc will no longer be the same for me.
第908条评论: one of the best si-fi stories I have read in years (the whole trilogy)
第909条评论: The translations are better than the second book in this series.
第910条评论: Really enjoyed this trilogy from behind the bamboo curtain. Intriguing on several levels.
第911条评论: exciting book
第912条评论: ImaginativeClient satisfait
第913条评论: This book is up there with Asimov's Foundation series, and Clarke's Rama series as my favorites of all time.  This is a brilliantly creative narrative premised on cutting edge scientific concepts.  First class science fiction.
第914条评论: I love big ideas in SF, like Larry Niven’s ring world.  This series has fantastic big ideas, lots of them.
第915条评论: I have read all three books and they all surprised me by their ideas and concepts. This book took a bigger perspective on the human life and their environment. And especially the narrative style.
第916条评论: I really enjoyed this trilogy, but this final episode left me feeling a bit hungry.
第917条评论: The best science fiction is not about happy endings, it is about making you think deeply about the universe, the meaning of life, the future of humanity etc.  And this book does that!
第918条评论: I didn't see how Cixin Liu could end the series. I don't know when, exactly, my skepticism vanished, but I was amazed time and again. This is a brilliant, and fitting, end to the series.
第919条评论: Not done reading, but there aren't many books that keeps me up to 2am reading (I'm not a college student). Really Paints a vast world and fills them with lots of science. Very Easy read.
第920条评论: This book, and the whole series, is an amazing, captivating work of science fiction. I loved every page and couldn’t stop reading.
第921条评论: I have been reading science fiction for over 55 years and Liu's trilogy is the best of the genre that I have come across. Great imagination and images. Always moving forward.
第922条评论: This wraps of the trilogy by Cixin Liu.  He has to be the most amazing sci-fi writer of our time.
第923条评论: A good culmination to an interesting trilogy, my only criticism would be that the pace of the story is a bit slow at times, it does meander at times and dwell excessively at times, but it is a must read to complete the trilogy.
第924条评论: From the great reviews, I had high expectations of the trilogy, which I'm sorry to say, were not met whilst reading the books. They weren't bad, indeed some aspects were excellent (eg. realistic about travel through space assuming current theory holds true), but I felt that the human element was a little weak. Nevertheless I was intrigued enough to buy the other books of the trilogy.Well, I'm writing this review three months on, and I'm still thinking about some of the ideas brought up in these books. The story, whilst original, was not the strongest element for me, but the imagining the future was extraordinary. This is an excellent series and should be read by all fans of realistic and intellegent science fiction.
第925条评论: All I can say is wow. The pace of this third installment of the three body trilogy is a factor of ten higher than the first book. And it needs to be. Liu could have turned this single book into a trilogy and it would still be supersaturated with top notch content. Some of the concepts given scant pages here would serve as an entire basis for lesser novels. In many ways this is also the book's weakness. The detail of enormously important events is glossed over or even completely missing, deferred to the reader's own musings post reading. I would have preferred at least another book to thin out some of the material here. Still, an epic achievement.Der erste Band war ein Meisterwerk. Der zweite Band fiel etwas ab und nach schwacher erster Hälfte hat es wegen der zweiten Hälfte noch für 4 Sterne gereicht. Hier habe ich ebenfalls zwischen drei und vier Sternen geschwankt, aber der letzte Akt hat mir so gar nicht gefallen und daher nur 3 Sterne.Nach wie vor hat Cixin Liu tolle Ideen, die er auch gut ausführt und erklärt. Es gibt auch ein paar überraschende Wendungen, die ja seine anderen Bücher ausmachten. Nur gelingt es ihm diesmal nicht recht die Ideen und Wendungen auch in eine interessante Geschichte zu packen. Es passiert wieder sehr viel, aber diesmal ist in meinen Augen nicht immer alles logisch und nicht alle Teile sind für das Verständnis der Story wichtig - einige Bezüge sind zudem sehr konstruiert. Es hilfft auch nicht, dass die Charaktere diesmal nicht so faszinierend sind und sich eher durch negative Eigenschaften auszeichnen.Das klingt jetzt negativer als es letzztlich war: Wie gesagt, sind Teile des Buches interessant und (ein bisschen) spannend und einige Ideen sind wirklich faszinierend. Wer den Stil des Autoren schätzt, kommt hier durchaus auf seine Kosten und natürlich will man auch wissen wie es weitergeht. Ganz unbedingt Lesen muss man den Band aber nicht. (Und das Ende ist so angepappt, dass ich immer an das Ende von Spielbergs AI denken musste - auch wenn es nicht ganz dessen Tiefen erreicht).
第926条评论: Suberb book. This guy has gone straight to the top of my list of favourite writers.He's writing about Dark Forest theory, which says the galaxy is teeming with life but it's a very dangerous and unpredictable place i.e. like walking through a forest in the dark. The only mathematical invariant in all this is that everyone is very afraid of everyone else and so keeps very silent.There's some great commentary on chinese life. He has a character who is the super hard-line type who violently overthrows the smug guys in charge, but then finds himself launched off into oblivion on a spacecraft heading off to some distant star rather slowly.
第927条评论: On par with Gulliver's travels, or Lord of the Rings in my book. Astounding breadth of perspective. Three more words required to post this, try to fool the algorithms.
第928条评论: I have really enjoyed all of the books in the series. There are some quirks in the English translation but overall it is very clear.  This is hard scifi at its best. The main character Cheng Xin is however really annoying. For some reason she is constantly put in charge of making very important decisions and always gets them wrong. Nobody seems to think "Ah maybe we should ask Cheng Xin what to do then do the exact opposite".
第929条评论: I have been a fan of sci-fi for over fifty years.This trilogy is by far the best I have ever read.The deep ideas, the amazing imagination, Arthur C Clarke, Isaac Asimov, accept that this author is the king of sci-fi.
第930条评论: The scope of the book is immense !The author has thought hard and deep about the nature of mankind and that of our universe !日本語訳が待ちきれなくて、英語版で読んでみました。著者が賞賛するように英語訳の質が大変高く、一気に読むことができました。シリーズ第三部となる本書では若きヒロインであるチェンシン (程心) の活躍ぶりが最初から最後まで語られており、その中で未来の人々の生活ぶりとともに科学・技術、医療、通信、交通の発展が描写されており、いかにも SF っぽい仕上がりとなっています。第一部、第二部を経てさらに広がる時空間が最新の宇宙物理の知見も交えながら、展開していく様子も素晴らしく、さらには謎解きのような小話もでてきて、魅力満載です。
第931条评论: I read The Three-Body Problem as part of the Hugo reading that year, and found it entertaining but paced kind of oddly; it is mostly concerned with setting up the historical context of the ensuing conflict, and so little happens and less is resolved in the first book.  I just this month read the rest of the trilogy, The Dark Forest and Death’s End, back-to-back, and I think if I’d read 3BP along with the others I might have enjoyed it a bit more as well – reading it simply as the first third of a story and not as a novel on its own.The Dark Forest introduced the concept of “dark forest deterrence”, akin to the threat of mutually-assured destruction that sustained the Cold War, as well as various game-theoretical deterrence scenarios.  In Death’s End we see the failure mode of those ideas, and the ensuing breakdown of the detente that ended The Dark Forest, together with some classic SFnal “big ideas” (dimensional physics! light-speed travel! space habitats!), drive the trilogy’s plot to its end.  Death’s End was certainly an ambitious conclusion to the story, and managed to continue heightening the stakes (set at “the conquest of Earth” from the very beginning) in an engaging way, which made even the occasional peaceful interludes in the story tense with the anticipation of what was about to go wrong next.  The events at the very end of the book felt a little inconsistent with the themes of deterrence and mistrust established by the rest of the story, but on reflection it allows the characters to discard the paranoia that they had been forced to live with for so long, and finish the story in an act of cooperation instead.The previous book made explicit reference to Asimov’s Foundation series, and the Asimovian influence on Liu is clear, both in positive and negative aspects – his work grapples with ideas on the scale of human history and beyond, while also contemplating the role of the individual in shaping the course of history, but his characters themselves feel more like archetypes than fully fleshed-out people.  Still, his characterization is an improvement on Asimov’s, in that he does a somewhat better job of motivating the behaviors that the plot requires of its characters, even if the characters’ backstories occasionally seem designed to purposefully sculpt the characters towards those behaviors.  (Which is true of many character arcs in plot-driven stories, of course, but the scaffolding isn’t always so apparent.)  The use of hibernation technology also allows Liu to maintain the same characters over hundreds of years (and more) of plot; Asimov’s reintroduction of new characters in each “Seldon Crisis” is one of the things preventing decent character development in much of the Foundation trilogy.  Liu also makes use of another classic SFnal narrative approach in Death’s End; he avoids excessive expository dialogue by frequently cutting to excerpts from a later-written history, which also allows him to depict humanity-spanning events succinctly and more or less objectively.Pedante, personajes simplones, llorón
第932条评论: Just finished Cixin Liu’s "Death’s End," and I’m blown away. Liu’s three-book series—The Three-Body Problem, The Dark Forest, and Death’s End—is a wild and thrilling ride. Liu’s writing is a mix of “showing” us the story of human and alien conflict through the experiences of many of his characters and “telling” us the history of a future that has not yet happened. The books are part novel and part (fascinating) textbook—drawing on such disciplines as physics, cosmology, sociology, psychology, politics, theology, philosophy, and knowledge of classic literature from many parts of the world. I was beyond thrilled to learn that these books will become a series for television, and I hope the writers/producers can do it justice. Liu’s mind works in marvelous and mysterious ways. I’m glad I got a glimpse.“The ultimate fate of all intelligent beings has always been to become as grand as their thoughts.” – Cixin Liu, Death’s End
第933条评论: Death’s End by Cixin Liu is the final book in the Remembrance of Earth’s Past trilogy. In a series that got extremely popular due it making it on President Obama’s recommendation list, we get to finally see to the fate of the human civilization and how they fare against the Trisolarans. With the Dark Forest theory enacted, will the Trisolarans play nice with humans on Earth or will they call their bluff? If I could give Death’s End more than five stars in my review, I’d gladly do it. It surpassed every expectation I had and more importantly, it reminds me of how fun it is to read a hardcore science fiction series from start to end and actually understand more than 80% of it!Some time has passed since I finished The Dark Forest and so I had to find a nice overall recap of the events leading up to Death’s End. I’m glad I did that because it brought back so many memories of the previous two books. This time around in Death’s End, we follow in the footsteps of Cheng Xin, a brilliant scientist that will eventually play a big role in human civilization’s existence in the future. We get to journey with her through hundreds and thousands of years to witness how humans have advanced over the era’s to better protect themselves from not just the Trisolarans but from other unknown entities in the wide universe as well. During my read of Death’s End, I was really immersed with both the story and the characters. Page after page did everything flowed so smoothly!As with the previous two books in the series, there are going to be many things that will just fly over our heads. However, I felt that the translator did a really good job of at least explaining the majority of it so that the readers at least can somehow picture it. To me that’s good enough. If the intent was to make the human civilization look small and tiny when compared to the overall nature of the universe, I’d say he’s done a good job! Anytime we’re dealing with hardcore science fiction there will bound to be questions that you’ll come up with. Because the technology being developed by the humans were so much more advanced than what we know of today, many of the questions I found myself asking dealt with if humans has the means to do variable X, then couldn’t they just have done Y instead of action Z?Needless to say, Death’s End is one heck of an addicting story. I am glad the series ended at just three books instead of the author dragging things on and milking the series further. The conclusion was satisfactory although I wished certain things and events were better explained. As it is, it probably doesn’t matter once I thought about it as that was probably what the author intended. Not everything can be explained in the grand scheme of things. When Earth and human civilization can be considered just a remote speck of dust in the greater universe, what can really matter in the end when there are way more advanced lifeforms out there with technology that we can’t even fathom or imagine?My only wish now is that this trilogy gets turned into a TV series either through Amazon or Netflix.
第934条评论: I still can't understand how Cixin Liu is not more famous in the West. The series was amazing beyond all my expectations (despite its fame) and I was also surprised that each book in the series managed to get better. There were different twists in each book and the way the author masterfully placed each twist in the perfect spots is amazing in itself. Again, I do not know the truthfulness of the underlying science throughout the books, but the story was consistent and extremely pleasant to read. Especially having one of the characters write a children's book to deliver a message to people on earth was pure genius.Do yourself a favor and read the entire series if you are a fan of good sci-fi books or if you want to understand the reason behind the buzz for this series.
第935条评论: .This is the phenomenal, mind-blowing final segment in Cixin Liu's "Three body" trilogy. In the first book, a Chinese scientist (embittered by the cultural revolution) revealed earth's existence to the Trisolarians. Many creative scientific flights of fancy followed. In the second book, the wall-facers came on the scene. Many amazing twists and turns later the secret of cosmic sociology was revealed. And in the third book Liu decides to go the whole hog; It's all happening: time, the dimensions of space, the velocity of light, the universe itself, everything you can imagine and many things you probably couldn't imagine. And he throws in a super-nerdish cosmic love story and a fairy tale that is a message passed across eons of space and time. Its wonderful fun and by the end it WILL blow your mind. In fact, Obama is a fan and it may well be that his unnaturally chill attitude about the age of Trump has something to do with the afterglow of this book. Once, you contemplate multiple universes and the endless, frightening possibilities of a universe with thousands of inhabited planets, Trump will not seem a big deal. The scene with "singer", for example, took my breath away.So, if it is that good, why the 4 stars? Because the characterization and the depiction of human politics are fairly weak. Some of it is probably lost in Han-to-Anglo-Saxon translation, but some of it is almost certainly because Liu is weak in this department. There are some interesting notions (like the fact that humans become more and more "feminine" as they become more technologically advanced) but depictions of mass human behavior and power politics are not his forte. This is not the Game of Thrones when it comes to human politics. And there is remarkably little crime, no sex and by the end, one too many "deux ex machina" moments. And sometimes the writing does get long winded. Also, the science explanations may sound pedantic to some people, though they were fine by me.Side note: The cast of the future is dominated by Chinese, Anglo-Saxon, Russian, Japanese and Korean names, more or less in that order. Africa is notably missing and there are no Muslims in the future, though crazy Christian cults abound. Make of that what you will :)Bottom line: absolutely worth a read. And a re-read. This is "hard science fiction" at its best. Liu has read everything and it shows. I imagine him as this Chinese supernerd; scientifically literate, thoroughly grounded in Chinese culture, but also in the Western classics and the highlights of Western civilization (some of these things may soon be familiar to a larger number of Chinese people than they are to Western commoners). And so it goes..
第936条评论: Death’s End is the final novel in the trilogy, Remembrance of Earth’s Past, written by Cixin Liu in Chinese and translated into English by Ken Liu. This finale starts off by jumping around the Deterrence Era, during which a seemingly easy peace has developed between the Earth and the Trisolarans through the threat of mutually assured annihilation, and back to the Crisis Era. This novel follows the story of Cheng Xin, who is an aerospace engineer from the Crisis Era when the Trisolaran threat first materialized. Cheng Xin awakes from hibernation at a critical time to be a part of a world-changing event. As the novel progresses, she wakes from hibernation over the years at critical junctions make decisions and to bear witness to major events in the changing relationship between the Trisolarans, Earth, and the Universe at large.As with the first two books, this novel is a sweeping drama about how humanity fits into the universe, which must be full of alien races. One caveat for this novel, like the previous ones in this trilogy, the story is filled with heavy scientific theory and explanation. Unfortunately, I found a really difficult time understanding and visualizing the science driving the story. It’s explained thoroughly, but it can be difficult to pay attention to. However, the action filled parts are thrilling and it takes the reader all over the solar system and even the universe. The theories presented in this novel, and in the series, about the universe and the relationships between different beings are unique and thought-provoking. It is also nice that this novel points back to the first two demonstrating how far the saga and humanity have come. Throughout the actions of Cheng Xin and her interactions with different characters, such as the Trisolarans, her boss, her deputy, Luo Ji, and her long lost and unrealized love, make her so perfectly human and a great focus for the closure of this epic storyline.The narration by PJ Ochlan was good. There is the issue of how it was difficult to stay focused, but that is likely due to the content. Ochlan did a good job with all the different characters’ voices and have them life and overall I think that he’s an excellent narrator. The production quality was good as well. I would recommend this novel and the entire series to anyone who likes classic science fiction novels full of space science theory and sweeping space drama.Audiobook was provided for review by the publisher.Please find this complete review and many others at my review blog[If this review helped, please press YES. Thanks!]
第937条评论: DEATH’S END is a mind-smashing co­nclusion to the REMEMBRANCE OF EARTH’S PAST trilogy… a fitting end to a mind-bending triplet of staggering science fiction. And this one’s not only a sprawling work of some 800 pages, it also covers an almost infinite amount of time. But perhaps the most amazing thing about it may be declared in one simple word in the trilogy’s title: “PAST.”(Like STAR WARS, “...A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away”?) And maybe I’m dull, but I read the entire three volumes before I realized how important this word is.This work is beyond amazing: it’s astounding. This book DEFINES a 5-star scoring: author Cixin (basically pronounced “See-shin,” says my daughter, a student of All Things Chinese) Liu invents more in a few pages than many authors do in ten times that amount. While his writing does not soar with literary flair, the concepts behind what he writes are simply astounding. He’s China’s answer to Kim Stanley Robinson, but for my money Cixin Liu wins. And of the three novels in this series, this final volume wins hands down.As I said when I reviewed The Dark Forest
第938条评论:  Liu excels when he creates a seemingly impossible dilemma, and then solves it. How do you stop an alien invasion when the aliens just proved their undeniable  superiority? How do you save the inhabitants of Earth when the destruction of its sun almost certainly will occur within the century? Rather than dwell in spoilers, simply believe me that this book is full of ingenious devices, plots, conspiracies, strategies and experiences that stretched my mind. There were countless times when I sat up, uttered, “Wow!” (or other, less urbane, expressions) and couldn’t WAIT to tell someone else what I had learned.Sure, there are “flaws,” if one can call them that. Though the invading Trisolarians have figured prominently in all three novels and arrived in our immediate solar system in Book Two, they land upon our planet in this volume. Yet there is NO physical description of them. It’s a topic that has led to some speculation on the internet, and certainly one can join in when and if they want, but I simply did not notice it until I had gone quite a way past the landing of the Trisolarians. It was then the thought of their appearance suddenly occurred to me, and when I realized there was no answer, I also realized I simply didn’t care. Maybe they looked just like us and that’s why no one said a thing – but simply put, I didn’t care. Liu created a trilogy so mesmerizing in its intellectual concerns that I didn’t even worry about this. It was what they represented to us that mattered.I also felt the ending got a little TOO scientific for my feeble brain to completely understand, but the good news is that Liu conveyed it in a way I could still follow. And that serves as an good summary of the rest of the trilogy: while it was certainly true that there were times when I found his immense intellectuality (is that even a word?) a bit daunting, I rarely, if ever, couldn’t follow the sense of what he was saying.Consider Liu the immensely bright college professor you love to see every so often at faculty/student gatherings, and when he speaks EVERYONE listens. Though he doesn’t mind answering your questions at all, those in the room let the curious know to simply let him speak...he’s much too fascinating to interrupt. And while you might have thought to “pish-posh” some of these really wild ideas when another person described them to you earlier, when the professor speaks, you ALL listen.Finally, I want to pay homage to another Liu: fellow author Ken Liu, who is the translator of these works. As good an author as he is (The Grace of Kings
第939条评论: ), he’s been quoted as saying he simply believed that Cixin Liu’s novels needed to reach a greater audience than just a Chinese work provided. How right he was. Though a great deal of the book takes place in China and concerns Chinese characters, customs, etc., etc., the narrative flow is fluid and smooth. That is, as much as it would be to anyone reading it regardless of their country. This is really intellectual stuff the author comes up with, and translating this highly technical science information had to be monumentally difficult.
第940条评论: Without any spoilers being said, the ending to this story was sort of... meh.  It's not like I am upset because it didn't end "happily ever after" or with the hero riding off into the sunset or some other cliche ending.  This conclusion was just.... meh.  It felt like the author wasn't sure how to end it either and tried a few different options in quick succession.  After all of the other intricate and well thought out story arcs, including at the beginning of this third book, I just wish that the final few chapters had more of an impact on me and impressed me as much as the other books had.
第941条评论: A really disappointing end to the series. Very heavy on the exposition, for what feels like very little reward.
第942条评论: Highly recommend
第943条评论: It's a real pity that the closing, and longest, volume of this trilogy is also the weakest. The first 2 volumes weren't without problems, esp. literary issues like poor character development, but at least they had an interesting plot and many truly novel ideas. The third volume "enjoys" many of the problems of the former volumes, but in addition it is just 'too much': too much is happening, too rapidly, too many ideas pop up - of which a lot are implausible (yes, even for a sci fi book) or underdeveloped - too much ups and downs and backs and forths in the plot, as if the author wasn't sure how to finish the trilogy, kept experimenting and experimenting, and eventually published everything his efforts produced, without any editing.  This book could have been a great conclusion for the trilogy had it ended about two thirds into the volume (I'm not saying where exactly so as to avoid spoilers... not that there's much to spoil)
第944条评论: It isn't until this final book in the thesis that Liu's thesis comes out: life follows a trajectory resulting in dimensional war that eventually ends up collapsing the universe (and the birth of another universe).Although this writing is considered science fiction, the plot takes direction from Cold War politics of Mutually Assured Destruction.This is a kind of fiction that I find irresponsible. The more we are exposed to ideas, the more "normal" they feel (regardless of how far outside any natural thresholds or ethics they might fall). Liu's premise that life is inherently competitive to the point of galactic genocide says a lot about his psychology, but little about human nature, and even less about the alien society. It is a book that leaves the reader feeling as though the world is devoid of meaning, and that is not the energy we could use these days.That said, the book is artfully written, especially the opening with the fall of Constantinople.
第945条评论: I didn't like the first book of the trilogy,so I skipped the second one. When Death's End came up in Hugo nominations, I was worried I'd have to read the middle book before the finale. Luckily, Death's End is fairly self-sufficient and doesn't really require the previous books.That's the good news. The bad news is that it reads like a boring, repetitive nature documentary that has a dull narrator. The book jumps thousands of years into the future, but the really important people always seem to be time travelers from our era. Humanity goes through huge catastrophes that are just glossed over. At one point the author throws the reader into the age of sexism, elsewhere in the book it's just casually present. The science is just as half-baked as in the first book.The book is a bit less dense in the infodump department, so maybe it's worth two stars. Still can't see why it would be worth a read.
第946条评论: Damn, I was excited to read this book, particularly because the translator of the first novel also translated this one.Unfortunately, even a skilled translator can’t improve lazy writing. This book, like The Dark Forest, gets bogged down in pedagogic description and repetitive phrasing. Seriously, I never want to read any combination of the words ‘tears’ and ‘hot’ again, like ever.While I appreciated the integration of current astrophysical theories and principals into a fictional tale, I felt like I’d hit a zero light speed trail every time some new concept was introduced. It derailed and distracted from the plot. If the author wants to write a textbook he should write a textbook, and not try to jam every scientific notion he can into a novel. This book, like TDF, really needs a major edit.Furthermore, the misogyny running throughout was disappointing and completely unnecessary. Honestly, character development is not Cixin Liu’s strong suit. His characters are mostly a conglomerate of cliches and stereotypes.I didn’t hate the book - I wanted to know what happened and the scientific concepts presented were fascinating, but it could have been so much better. I have to say, The Three Body Problem is his best book.
第947条评论: I got the audiobook version.  enjoyed listening the first 25 hours, but the ending in the last two hours was very disappointing.  while it's cool the author included all the latest theoretical and hypothetical astrophysics in the story, but at the end the story revolved around the hypothetical physics and the story fell apart.  the woman never met with the guy who gave him the star on the planet blue, and instead ended up alone with the guy that didn't have any significant role in the story until the end.  she just  never made it to her destination and got pulled away from the entire story at the end.  and the tiny universe and them ending up in millions of years in the future were just dumb.  there was no closure about what happened to trisolaris and the other galactic humans.  no closure on the tien-ming or aa.  the ending of the story was just to accommodate the multiverse hypothesis...  sad.
第948条评论: The books decline in quality as the series progresses.  In the last book we get a female character lead who somehow manages to make the absolute worst decisions possible at all moment in times but we are meant to like her anyway?  All logic is abandoned.Was Cixin rushed to complete this series?  Can authors only do three part series now adays?
第949条评论: Actually I did not read past page 30. I did not like it at all.
第950条评论: The final book in the Remembrance of Earth’s Past trilogy, Death’s End really goes for broke in its attempts to be an epic tale. I struggled through it for much the same reason I struggled through the first two books: the depictions of women are by turns baffling and infuriating. If you were bothered by that in the first two novels, I warn you it’s still at issue here. The woman at the center of Death’s End, engineer Cheng Xin, is by turns patronized, deified, and vilified both by the male characters and the narrative itself. If you can ignore this, and the author’s tendency toward paragraph upon paragraph of info-dumping, there are certainly the bones of a very compelling tale of humanity’s future within these pages. The science involved is fascinating, and if you’re on the hunt for oldschool hard science fiction this might fit the bill.
第951条评论: *Some Spoilers Below*I really enjoyed the first two books in this trilogy. While the characters weren't great, there was a great mixture of narrative and sci-fi ideas that made the books a very compelling read. This most recent book, unfortunately, loses the narrative and the whole book suffers for it. The first half was ok, but the story falls apart in the second half. Hibernation is used as a plot device to advance the years at the expense of interesting story threads just so new ideas can be introduced. While the sci-fi ideas really are interesting, they are unfortunately pulled down by the poor story and he may have been better off saving them for another book. It really was a difficult read, I am sad to say. Honestly, the first two books stand on their own, and I am not sure this half hearted epilogue was needed.
第952条评论: I definitely recommend this series to anyone into hard sci-fi or into the works of great sci-fi authors like Isaac Asimov. A truly enjoyable book with some huge ideas.
第953条评论: I rarely leave reviews on fiction books as existing reviews have things covered. I was compelled to leave one for the Three-Body Problem series because it was insanely good. While it can get overly descriptive at times (which I sometimes view as "filler", but maybe it was the translation), the plot, characters, creativity, and logistics of this series was excellent. Not to mention his take on Fermi's Paradox, which is a bit depressing but logical. I've been reading sci-fi for over 40 years and this series blew my mind, esp Dark Forest; it's also been a long time since I haven't put down a book for hours! I'd highly recommend the series.
第954条评论: I had mixed feelings about this book. I found the author's concepts really interesting, even if I didn't always agree that the world would make the decisions it made when presented with certain scenarios. The intetesting-ness of the series is why I've rated it fairly high. It kept me hooked and I wanted to keep reading. The time scales involved also added to that interest factor.I really hated the ending though. It wasn't bad or poorly written, I just hated the choice the author made when he could have left out the last couple of twists and had (to my mind) a more satisfying conclusion. But that's just my personal preference.
第955条评论: A more imaginative and well-crafted tale of the universe is hard to fathom. The author creates a powerful, impassioned storyline that is both captivating and scientifically mesmerizing. A beautiful tale for the ages.
第956条评论: If you, like me, enjoyed the first two books, then you'll enjoy seeing how Cixin Liu wraps up the story. I think it's difficult to conclusively end a long story, and that Liu does not do an especially good job of it, but on the other hand he doesn't do a bad job of it, either. And the plot does, along the way, branch in many interesting directions I would not have expected.Moreover, for this book they brought back Joel Martinsen, the translator for the first book; I think he's a great writer in his own right and that he does, here once again, a great job of translating the original prose into vivid and memorable English-language imagery.Mild thematic spoilers: As I neared the end of this book, it began to feel emotionally similar to the end of David Brin's Uplift books, which I loved as a kid. And then it turns out that David Brin loves these books and has been an ardent supporter of them! I love it.Mild, uh, political spoilers, I suppose: The majority of the tension and drama and conflict is created, time and again, because a soft gentle female character is too soft-gentle-female to make reasonable decisions. This feels lazy and altogether at least faintly misogynistic — something to consider if you're on the fence about this book.
第957条评论: Slow start but great finish!! 👍👍Great world and character building.Really good read! Deserved the Hugo!Really fun read!
第958条评论: Cixin Liu is a master of narrative scale. I had no idea how he would top the suspense and the weight of the ideas in The Dark Forest, and while the second book might have been a bit better singularly organized on the human coming to terms with the Dark Forest Principles, Death’s End takes it further, even if occasionally imperfectly.Even in a world that frequently subjected the reader and its characters to unfathomable tragedy, the sense of awe this series created helps challenge the reader to think beyond the immediate feeling of a consequence, and what it might or might mean on VERY BIG scales.I will say - the story tends to lean on gender tropes in an awkward and unnecessary way, namely in “to solve, to do is solely masculine), that sometimes just felt like a distraction. The good news is the story does not feel built on these premises so one can basically read past them.I wish I were able to score something a 4.5 because this one really feels like it’s being cheated at 4. So many moments were just mind squeezingly amazing, and I’m left wondering what I could even try reading that would compare after this series.Loved it.
第959条评论: This trilogy (Remembrance Of Earth's Past -- book one:  The Three Body Problem, and you HAVE to start there) is some of the best sci fi I've ever read.  The sci part is amazing (and I'm no science nerd, I assure you --  if you've ever looked at a Hubble image and contemplated the universe you qualify) and the sociological projections are just as riveting and thought-provoking (as they MUST be, for sci fi to truly work).  This truly works.  I thought the first book (The Three Body Problem) was very interesting, not least because of its Chinese perspective.  It really doesn't become CRYSTAL clear that The Three Body Problem really even IS sci fi for sure until more than half way through the book -- it actually begins during the Chinese Cultural Revolution (the 1960s).  At times, The Three Body Problem might be described as "a little slow," I think.  But you MUST read it -- it's hardly a chore, but I fear some people may stop in the middle, and no one should do that!  Because the second and third books are truly among the more exhilarating sci fi roller coaster rides imaginable, and you will require all that essential Three Body Problem set up!  This guy is a genius, go for it.
第960条评论: ... to advance the state-of-the art within this fictional world to new heights, allowing the sequels to achieve "narrative" discoveries impossible without the prior books.I haven't been this amazed, stunned, and on the edge of my seat by a sci-fi series in a long time. The entire "Three Body Problem" triology does what few other series do - take big risks in each book, employ different narrative techniques, and create plots so intricate and surprising that you will only guess what's going to happen about 2 pages before it does. I finished this book a week ago, and I'm still finding myself thinking back to the major plot turns, interesting sci-fi ideas, and playing "what ifs" in my regular life with the concepts introduced here. If you haven't read the series, start with "The Three Body Problem" and know that yes, it's really as good as people say and that each book builds on each other and each is better than previous because of what the prior book(s) achieved.
第961条评论: This series was utterly engrossing.  Liu does not pull punches.  If George RR Martin had bigger balls he would maybe imagine a small fraction of this series.  The major departure from typical sci-fi novels is nuance, among humans, aliens, galactic beings.  Liu addresses “being” nature and politics and how small events and individuals may create mass-scale changes, while massive efforts may not yield much.  Sometimes things just happen.  Sometimes it’s luck.  Not everything is logical and not every hero is flawless.  The first two books set the tone but the third book really expands the reader’s perspective.  But Liu never loses sight of scale.  It’s so much fun to read and forces examination of our own views and values.  Highly recommended!
第962条评论: Absolutely amazing work by Cixin Liu, a fitting conclusion to the Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy. Immense in scope and ambition, but also balanced, romantic, and deeply human. Absolutely recommended.
第963条评论: Slightly clunky narrative style (which might just reflect the translation) and a little slow to get going in the first book, but by the second book I couldn't put this series down due to its fast pace, enormous scale, and the way it seemingly blended a logical science based (ie. consistent with physics as we presently understand it) description of actions, events and consequences, with wildly imaginative ideas. I've been reading Sci-Fi for a long time but haven't read anything as original as this whilst remaining true to the basic precepts of proper old-school 'Science Fiction'.I've no idea how Amazon Video is going to be able to turn these books into a watchable TV series, but I've little doubt that it will require the reported Billion dollars that Jeff Bezos is prepared to pay in order to even attempt to realise something as grand and as complex as this story on the small screen. I will certainly look forward to seeing the attempt, but in any event, if you like SF then do yourself a massive favour and read this series.
第964条评论: Until the day I set eyes on the first book of this trilogy, I had not read any SciFi authored by a Chinese writer. I must say I approached it with certain trepidation and clearly unsure as to what to expect. Suffice to say, reading these 3 books has been immensely rewarding and enjoyable.The whole saga is at once complex and unpredictable. Events larger than life are described summarily and then, what at first sight seems a minor detail, turns out to be pivotal to understand what is really going on. The text flows easily and apace. Descriptions are vivid, colourful, masterly created to shade light on truly complex ideas about cosmology, planetary evolution or quantum physics.Characters are painted with great care but it feels effortlessly. There is a giant imagination at work here.In a sentence, these 3 books take the reader from the Chinese cultural revolution to the end of the known Universe. All the way we are silent witnesses to an incredible succession of unparalleled events, seen through the eyes of what we may call ordinary (but not so) individuals.Finally, the translation is great.
第965条评论: 1. Re: book appearance. The book itself was as good as new. I am so surprised and thrilled: not only I get to save money on buying, but at the same time I get to recycle and that it priceless.2. Re: contents. This is the third book in the trilogy  and beyond doubt is my favorite in the series. As a science fiction fan I have lots a more in the genre and this is just a absolute blast. Partly due to the technical background of the authors previous field of work, partly to the exotic cultural premises, the book is utterly breathtaking, mind blowing, mesmerizing. As a reader I was in awe non stop for 720 pages and was lost when is ended. I recommend to anyone and everyone.
第966条评论: Having read the whole trilogy I can say the last book was the best.it is not the science fiction with all the technicalities that involve that makes this novel beautiful as the philosophy behind the whole affaire.as the first axiom of the "survival" is the most important.it can be achieved by different means and the author chose "love for human life" in a very excellent way with all the metaphors he used.to read it you have to have patience and accept long and repetitive descriptions but it is worth the effort and time the reader puts in.Great book!
第967条评论: awe inspiring to say the least .. by far and away one of the most important series I've read .. from both a fictional and non-fictional pov. if you have ANY doubts PLEASE give them ago .. I'm indebted to the genius writer and translators .. thank you all so muchNach dem interessanten Einstieg im ersten Band der Reihe und der schon etwas gezogeneren Fortsetzung im zweiten Band stellt dieser dritte Teil der Trilogie den geneigten Leser vor einige Herausforderungen. Die Trisolaner stellen eine weitere Bedrohung für die Menschen auf der Erde dar und so müssen diese einen Weg finden, diese in den Schranken zu halten. Die Möglichkeit, das Universum – den dunklen Wald – von der Existenz der beiden Planeten zu verständigen und damit ihrer beider Vernichtung sicherzustellen wirkt wie eine Waagschale zum Gleichgewicht des Schreckens, bis die Trisolaner nach dem Austausch des Schwertträgers – als desjenigen, der den Sendeaktivator in der Hand hat – eine etwas zögerlichere Person vor sich haben, deren Zögern sie nutzen um die Anlagen zu vernichten. Direkt danach beginnen sie den Marsch auf die Erde, die sie zu übernehmen gedenken, bis auf eine Art Reservatsgebiet in Australien, in das sich alle Menschen zurückziehen sollen. Wer zu einem bestimmten Stichtag noch außerhalb des „Gegengewichtskontinents“ ist, der wird gnadenlos vernichtet. Doch tatsächlich reichen die Pläne der Trisolaner für die Menschen noch wesentlich weiter.Diese Situation wird vergleichsweise überraschend aufgelöst, und die Menschen und Trisolaner sehen sich danach ganz neuen Problemen gegenüber, die dann im Laufe des Restbuchs zunehmend unwahrscheinlicher werden und auf Grund dieser Unwahrscheinlichkeit – und der Präsentation – auch zunehmend uninteressant werden. Ein Universum voller gottgleicher Gefährdungen, denen man irgendwie versucht auszuweichen und eine Hauptfigur, die trotz ständiger Seelensuche vergleichsweise farblos bleibt und die ständige hibernierend erst durch die Jahrzehnte und dann durch die Jahrmillionen reist, ist schon für sich genommen auf Grund der fehlenden emotionalen Identifikationsmöglichkeiten nicht unbedingt leserfreundlich – besonders, da diese Person erstaunlich lernresistent zu sein scheint.Daneben werden ständig alle möglichen – und unmöglichen – Projekte unnötig ausgiebig erläutert und dies zum Teil doppelt, so dass ein Handlungsfluss und auch ein Spannungsaufbau in ungefähr einem Drittel der Erzählung vermieden werden. Die Versuchung quer zu lesen wird dabei nahezu übermächtig. Zumindest nach dem ersten Drittel des Buchs.Die einzige Ausnahme – neben den zum Teil interessanten Grundkonzepten und – prämissen – sind dann noch drei Rätselmärchen, die erzählerisch wesentlich mehr hergeben, als der langatmige Abschluss dieses Romans. Hier kann ich einen frühen Leseabbruch nur empfehlen. Die Sterne gibt es für die Konzepte, die Prämissen und die drei Märchen.Esta novela, recién nominada al premio Hugo 2017 entre otras cinco, cierra la espectacular trilogía de Liu Cixin, a la que se suelen referir como Trilogía de los Tres Cuerpos en castellano, de manera tan brillante y tan oscura como la empezó El Problema de los Tres Cuerpos. Después de terminar el segundo libro, The Dark Forest, la trama principal parecía haber llegado a una resolución definitiva y el tercer libro comienza retrocediendo en el tiempo para avanzar una de las cuestiones que articulará el final de la historia y que multiplica una vez más las posibilidades del universo, las amenazas y los retos a los que se enfrenta la raza humana, cuyos efectos se reflejan en sus complejos protagonistas.Esperemos que se traduzca pronto al castellano, para que más personas puedan disfrutar de estas excelentes novelas de ciencia ficción escritas por un autor chino, cuyas referencias podemos conocer o no; lo que es seguro es que el bosque oscuro que despliega ante nosotros no nos dejará indiferentes.
第968条评论: Best one in the trilogy. Must read for science fiction and space lovers. Prose is world class, the book is fast paced, a page turner, lots of unexpected twists with interesting characters and lots and lots of tech & science fiction. The tech he has imagined is just mind blowing. Looking forward to netflix’s screen adapation
第969条评论: The 3 part Three body books take sci fi to whole new level. I never leave book reviews but felt obliged this time. There is a certain element of scientific and mathematical theory within the story, to be honest there are still elements I can't quite get my head around and wish I understood better, this does not detract from the whole experience though. Actually this hard science adds to the overall feeling that you forget you are reading something from one man's imagination and actually feel as if you are reading some sort of non fiction history.How the author was able to write this down and the translators get it across in English is nothing short of miraculous. I couldn't put these books down and felt a real sense of loss when I finished.Absolutely fantastic and immersive reading experience.
第970条评论: With its completion with Death’s End, I can now say that the Remembrance of Earth’s Past is my all-time favorite science fiction series (says the noob of a sci fi fan).  It opens just like you would expect the final volume of an insanely ambitious hard science fiction series to open, with a magician offering to help the emperor prevent the Fall of Constantinople in 1453.  Wait, what?  This has never been a series interested in hewing to convention.  And so we get a story spanning a few million years (specifically, 1453 – 18906416).“Once, ancient Romans had whistled in their grand, magnificent baths, thinking that their empire, like the granite that made up the walls of the pools in which they floated, would last forever.  No banquet was eternal.  Everything had an end.  Everything.”(SPOILERS for the first two books in the Remembrance of Earth’s Past series below.)Did I say that Death’s End is insanely ambitious?  It purports to encompass most of the history of humanity, and of the universe, within its scope.  And, indeed, all things must end.  But nor is “life . . . nothing but a fragile, thin, soft shell clinging to the surface of this planet.”  As another work of science fiction put it, “Life finds a way.”After a prologue that is bizarre and kind of awesome and strictly not necessary, and a brief interlude with Yang Dong shortly before she commits suicide, the story proper opens shortly after the Trisolaris invasion fleet becomes public knowledge (the Crisis Era).  Yun Tianming is a sad sack, a loner, an entirely undistinguished scientist.  But the thread of his life has the chance to play a greater role in the pattern of human history when it comes back into contact with his college crush, Cheng Xin.Yun Tianming is a bit of a head fake.  Cheng Xin is not only Death’s End protagonist, but is far more central to the story, heck, to the entire series, than any of the characters from the first two books.  Cheng Xin is, in at least one way, the best protagonist in the series.  That is, she is the most memorable.  Not the best, but she is the easiest to keep distinct in your mind as a character.  Or at least that was my experience.  She is no Luo Ji, though.  The Trisolarans are right—Luo Ji is a mighty warrior.  We do see Luo Ji again, but Cheng Xin’s story dominates the book in a way that Wang Miao and Luo Ji never did.The Wallfacer project isn’t the UN’s only response to the Trisolarans.  Cheng Xin becomes a part of the parallel Staircase Program.  The Staircase Program ultimately settles on a truly science fictional idea—using nuclear pulse propulsion to send a frozen brain light years through space.“At the same time, in Russia and China, Topol and Deongfeng missiles were also rising in the sky.  The scene resembled a doomsday scenario, but Cheng Xin could tell by the curvature of the rocket trails that these were orbital launches instead of intercontinental strikes.  These devices, which could have killed billions, would never return to the surface of the Earth.  They would pool their enormous power to accelerate a feather to 1 percent of the speed of light.”We’re not going to spend the entire book stuck back in the Crisis Era, though.  The same hibernation Luo Ji took advantage of in The Dark Forest is available to Cheng Xin, and she makes good use of it.  When she first reawakens, Luo Ji singlehandedly holds the Trisolarans at bay as Swordholder.  He wields Dark Forest deterrence.Ok, now this is REALLY SPOILER territory for The Dark Forest.  In The Dark Forest, humans discovered why the universe is so quiet.  Given an infinite number of stars, there are infinite habitable planets, infinite civilizations, infinite supercivilizations, and infinite supercivilizations that view any intelligent life as a potential threat.  And if you’re a supercivilization, you don’t need to build a system the size of a small moon to destroy a planet.“‘Dark forest attacks all share two qualities: one, they’re casual, two they’re economical.’  ‘Elaborate, please.’  ‘These attacks are not part of some interstellar war, but a matter of conveniently eliminating possible threats.  By “casual,” what I mean is that the only basis for the attack is the exposure of the target’s location.  There will be no reconnaissance or exploration conducted against the target beforehand.  For a supercivilization, such exploration is more expensive than a blind strike.  By “economical,” what I mean is that the attack will employ the least expensive method: using a small, worthless projectile to trigger the destructive potential already present in the target star system.’”At least now we know what happened to the Moon in Seveneves.If that doesn’t sound bad enough, things get worse.Death’s End continues and expands on the best aspect of The Dark Forest—balls-to-the-wall crazy science, and lots of it.  There are gigantic space cities.  “[A] regular cylinder that stimulated gravity with the centrifugal force generated by spinning.  With a length of seven kilometers, its useable interior surface area was 659 square kilometers, about half the sizes of ancient Beijing.  Once, about twenty million inhabitants had lived here.”  There are a few dozen more, like that or not.  There is light speed travel.  Well, near-light speed travel—“If there really were a Creator, the only thing he welded shut in all Creation was the speed of light.” And then there are antimatter weapons, artificial black holes, multiple dimensions, a circumsolar particle accelerator, and, for lack of a better word, vacuoles.But the Remembrance of Earth’s Past series has always been science fiction with a capital SCIENCE.  Not only does Death’s End have a more relatable protagonist.  It has, by a fair margin, the best writing of the series, especially the pacing and plotting.  Liu (The Lius?) can throw out a hell of a wham line.  “Tianming, did you know that the euthanasia law was passed specifically for you?”By the way, the Trisolarans make great villains (I’m not so sure they qualify as antagonists; the antagonist is more often physics and humanity’s current understanding of it.)  They aren’t wantonly cruel, but they give as little thought to humanity’s pain as the wolf gives that of the sheep.  One trend in modern villainy I’ve really come to find annoying is the bad guy going out of his way to show just how EVUL he is.  Think Alan Rickman’s Sheriff of Nottingham killing Guy of Gisbourne for little to no reason.  In reality, even despots need allies.  Apropos, I just finished reading a biography of King John.  He had a distinct tendency toward cruelty, and it made him a weak king.  Tywin Lannister wouldn’t have been the most feared man in England, he would have been the most hated, and it would have cost him power.  One of the high marks for Amazon’s Sneaky Pete is that the bad guy played by Bryan Cranston is so rational, which doesn’t stop him from being evil but does make him a much more dangerous foe.  Ok, digression over.The Remembrance of Earth’s Past has always been chock full of social commentary, albeit rarely of the Anvilicious sort (perhaps aided by the language and cultural barriers).  He sees environment as having an enormous influence on human society, and humans also as being prone to cyclical thinking reacting against the past as much as the environment.  Thus humanity vacillates wildly: “The repressive militaristic uniformity of the Great Ravine; the optimism and romanticism of the latter half of the Crisis Era; the hedonistic freedom and indolence of the Deterrence Era.”  Like Joe Haldeman in The Forever War, Liu touches on the idea of a trend toward feminization.  Men in the Deterrence Era are so feminine that Cheng Xin initially doesn’t realize that they are men.  Liu seems to tie this directly to a “half century of peace and ease brought about by the Deterrence Era [that] accelerated the trend.”  When things get hard again later, the trend reverses.  I’m not so sure.  It is perhaps no accident that Haldeman and Liu are both men.  If you don’t think “masculinity, as traditionally defined, [i]s considered an ideal,” just pick up a romance novel.  Any era that makes Mike Rowe a sex symbol still puts a premium on masculinity.I find Death’s End, and the series in general, most fascinating, though, as a product of atheism.  Not just a work influenced by atheism, or the product of an atheist (I have no idea if Cixin Liu is or isn’t), but a work that is the product of an atheistic society.  And not just in the more direct ways it addresses religion (“The discovery of the dark forest state of the universe was a giant blow to most major religions, especially Christianity”).  Or even Cheng Xin repeatedly playing the role of either Eve or Messiah (“I want to tell all those who believe in God that I am not the Chosen One.  I also want to tell all the atheists that I am not a history-maker.  I am but an ordinary person.”)I distinguish between a work written by an atheist and the product of an atheistic society because works written by Western atheists, especially American atheists, are still working from essentially a Judeo-Christian perspective.  Even if they are reacting against it, their work can still be defined in relation to it.  The typical nihilism in modern storytelling, then, is an act of rebellion that we can try to rationalize away—for there to be a rebellion, there must be a dominant order.  The nihilism of Death’s End, on the other hand, is pervasive, and thus terrifying.  Other books are dark in a way that makes you happy you can set them aside and return to normal life after you’re done reading.  The darkness of Death’s End is fundamental, and reaches beyond the four corners of the book.  The Trisolaran threat, the threat of a Dark Forest strike, the mindboggling timescale, space itself, all serve to reinforce that underlying nihilism.  After all, is there anything more frightening than space to the atheist?  They look up and see not the glory of God’s creation but instead an infinite emptiness creating ever more oppressive loneliness.  Liu returns to it, again and again.“Death is the only lighthouse that is always lit.”“The child that was human civilization had opened the door to her home and glanced outside.  The endless night terrified her so much that she shuddered against the expansive and profound darkness, and shut the door firmly.”“She finally understood how she was but a mote of dust in a grand wind, a small leaf drifting over a broad river.”But because I could not so easily dismiss it, I was left wondering as I read the book, and am left wondering still today weeks after finishing it, whether it meant as hopeful.  Keynes was right.  “In the long run we are all dead.”  Toggle the end date for your book far enough and you’ll get there.  Even the Bible ends with Revelation.  Humanity escapes catastrophe miraculously, but it’s going to get us all eventually.And so we return to the opaque allegory of Cheng Xin, our Eve and Messiah.  Is she savior of bringer of destruction?  Is her weakness a damnation of us or merely of herself?  Is it even really weakness at all?
第971条评论: DEATH'S END brings popular Chinese science fiction author's Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy (begun with Hugo winner THE THREE BODY PROBLEM) to a rousing, fulfilling, and moving conclusion. It is a story that spans millions of years and multiple universes. It is strange, wonderful, full of ideas, and thought provoking. It is grand in scope and despite that, personal in nature. It is quite possibly the best science fiction book of 2016, which was full of science fiction novels that could claim that title, as this year's Best Novel Hugo finalist list attests to. It deserves all those superlatives and more.A summary of the plot of DEATH'S END is somewhat difficult, although the story itself is told in a somewhat straightforward (I was tempted to put the phrase "sometimes meandering" after straightforward, but that just didn't seem like the right thing to do) sequential manner. The story starts, in essence, where THE DARK FOREST left off. The people of Earth and the Trisolarans are at a standstill. Luo Ji, the one Wallfacer that actually did his job properly, found a way to hold off the Trisolaran attack via the Dark Forest defense. Luo Ji became what was called The Swordholder. The Swordholder was tasked with the responsibility of broadcasting the location of Trisolaris if the Trisolarans should head to earth to attack. The drawback is that broadcasting the location of Trisolaris would also give away the location of Earth, thus dooming both planets to attack from another malevolent civilization out there in the cosmos.The story, then is how humanity moves forward in the face of impending disaster. Unlike both THE THREE BODY PROBLEM and THE DARK FOREST, which have enough central characters to keep track of to make George R.R. Martin look like a rookie (okay, maybe not many, but you get the idea), DEATH'S END does have one central character, Cheng Xin. She is the character that ties all the sections of the book together as well as the character upon which the fate of humanity hinges. Time and again, Cheng Xin is called upon to make critical decisions. The most important decision comes not long after she is elected by the Earth's population to become the next Swordholder after it is time for Luo Ji to step down from that post. We all know that every decision has a consequence that leads to another decision point, and Cheng Xin finds herself in the middle of every monumental decision that is made in the book (granted, the nature of storytelling is to put the protagonist front and center and let him or her sort it out). And every decision is more monumental than the previous, leading up to the final decision at the end of the book.While the threat of the Trisolarans is present throughout the novel, there is a point at which the focus changes from fear of attack from the Trisolarans (for reasons which I will not go into here) to that of protecting and saving humanity over the long haul. That's not to say the Trisolarans didn't have their moment in the sun (sorry about that) in the story, but they nearly became an afterthought as humanity switch its goal from defending itself against the Trisolarans to defending itself against the universe.One more item about the structure of the novel before I move on to other things. The story is broken up into eras, which are listed in the front of the book and cover from the present all the way through 18906416 (In the timeline of Universe 647 - there, did that whet your appetite? If not, I have more coming.), although in reality (and I'm not sure which reality I'm talking about at this point) the story doesn't actually end in that year. The framework is a memoir entitled "A Past Out of Time", from which excerpts are presented from time to time. It proved to be, at least for me, an effective way to move the story along and provide perspective to what exactly was happening.This book is a lot of things, but one thing it isn't is a traditional story where there's a hero and a villain and a battle at the end to decide the victor (although that kind of story seems to be slowly disappearing from view). Sure, there's a protagonist in Cheng Xin, but she's really there to tie up all the eras (by going into hibernation which enables her to span those eras) and be there from beginning to end to provide a familiar thread while Cixin Liu does what he really wants to do: blow our minds.It's a story of the survival of humanity, a story of moral decisions, a story of love - of one person for another as well as one person for the entire human race - and a story of frenzied, mind blowing concepts and ideas that has the reader's head constantly spinning. Just when you get your head around a particular idea that Cixin Liu is presenting, he throws it away in favor of another equally mind blowing idea that is just as relevant to the situation at hand. I'll just list a few here: firearms that shoot bullets which contain a mini-black hole inside of them; the attainment of lightspeed by a method called curvature space propulsion, which has the potentially nasty side effect of reducing the speed of light in its wake to a point so slow that those trapped within its field can't get out, and thus are stuck there forever in something called a Black Domain; the concept of a weapon that can destroy its intended target by transforming the area of space from three dimensions to two dimensions; and just how do you file an insurance claim on the death of someone who fell into a mini black hole when in their frame of reference they've fallen through the event horizon but in our frame of reference it will take so long for them to fall through the event horizon that the claim will never be able to be made?Along with the flood of ideas comes its companion, the flood of exposition, or infodumps, if you will. It seems inevitable that with each complex idea there is an accompanying firehose worth of information regarding that idea. Sometimes it comes in the form of "As you know, Bob...", and sometimes it comes in the form of the author simply - well, I don't think there's anything simple about any of the ideas - telling the reader about it with large amounts of exposition, which sometimes lasts for several pages. If there's anything that could slow this book down and be a bit problematic, it's the infodumps. One could argue that at 600+ pages the book could use some editing, but it could also be argued that in order for Cixin Liu to get his ideas across those infodumps are necessary. In the long run, they didn't ruin my enjoyment of the novel, but I can see where they could be a problem for some readers.With regard to the narrator, P.J. Ochlan, it should be said that he did a wonderful job creating different voices for the characters and seamless changing between them when called upon to do so. His narration never took me out of the story, and he truly did the best he could with the aforementioned long and involved infodumps. I enjoyed listening to him and would be interested in listening to other books for which he is the narrator. I feel as if his style supplemented and augmented the tone that Cixin Liu was looking for in the novel, and if I ever find time I would be interested in going back and listening to his narration of DARK FOREST. He did not narrate THE THREE BODY PROBLEM.With regard to Ken Liu's translating job, once again, since I don't know Chinese I cannot say how much his translation represented what Cixin Liu was trying to tell the reader. I did enjoy the text of the story, and it felt well written. There's not much else I can say about it.It's no secret that I'm a sucker for cosmic, mind blowing ideas. I fall for the grand scope of a story that spans millions of years and multiple parallel universes, including the old message in a bottle trope. Yeah, I just love all that stuff. DEATH'S END is the book I've been waiting to read for several decades. A book like it may never come along again.
第972条评论: Plenty has been written about the extraordinary imaginativeness and story-telling prowess of Liu Cixin in this thought-provoking book. Having just finished the trilogy after just over a week of obsessive reading, I’ll share a few thoughts as a means of decompressing from this harrowing epic.I read the first two volumes in Chinese and the third in English, mainly because it became too labored an effort to read the transliterated foreign proper nouns and technical words in Chinese (for me, anyway), and I can attest to the quality of the translation and its loyalty to the original. It felt as if I read all three books seamlessly in the same language. Although certain things are inevitably lost in translation, Ken Liu, as an accomplished writer himself, certainly compensated for the loss with innovations of his own. My only complaint has to do with certain word choices. For example, pinnace and dinghy are perhaps neither familiar to most readers nor appropriate terms for astronautic vehicles, and at times certain passages are unnecessarily grandiloquent while at others overly casual when exploring scientific and philosophical concepts. I was especially dismayed that the end of a fairy tale in the story opted for a word-for-word translation instead of “and they lived happily ever after,” despite that’s exactly what the source material means, and it was the only moment that I felt like I was reading a translation.It is important to point out that although the three books complete the same story arc in a mostly chronological order, they involve very different scale, scope, and more importantly, themes. Emotionally, each book is fully resolved at the end. In this regard, the first book, though a thorough page turner and winner of the Hugo Award, perhaps has the least depth of the three.One major theme of the first book is certainly the existential crisis that can arise out of either failure to grasp reality or loss of faith in humanity, and the second book inverts that theme to become the humanity’s shifting beliefs in reality and faith when faced with a crisis of existence. Death’s End, on the other hand, annihilates any notion that we may have of both crisis and existence.Romantic love evolves along with the installments. The Three Body Problem has a cynical notion of love, and the stories of various marriages are marked by betrayal, indifference, and lovelessness. In Dark Forest, love is an ideal that ultimately proves to be an illusion. In Death’s End, love is concrete with cosmic consequences, yet at the same times becomes the most elusive and utterly devastating.The narrative structure of Death’s End is also different compared to the previous two books. It doesn’t have the air of mystery of The Three Body Problem that is imposed by an unknown entity, or the intentional concealment of Dark Forest that plays smoothly into the Wallfacer Project. Instead, the story unfolds in a straightforward manner, but every decision made has far reaching consequences that you may not see for hundreds of pages, which in turn are foretold by minute details before they are revealed. There is one subtle but brilliant point a third into the book where the Trisolaran emissary sadistically admonishes the forlorn protagonist that the universe is not a fairy tale. It may seem like a mundane cliché by a cartoonish villain, but this point ties together the entire trilogy.The last installment, like the previous two, pays ample homage to other works of science fiction, sometimes covertly. It is interesting, however, that Liu also subverts elements from his prior stories in the trilogy. Similarly, Ball Lightening, of which a weaponized version is mentioned repeatedly in the second book, is an earlier eponymous novel of his. Three short stories come to mind: The Wandering Earth, The Rural Teacher, and a third one that may reveal too much plot by its title alone. The Wandering Earth tells the story of a human society that tries to escape the Sun that is shifting out of main sequence unexpectedly early by making Earth itself into a giant spaceship in order to fly to, ironically, Alpha Centauri, the Trisolaran home world. A specific object that appeared in The Wandering Earth is mentioned twice in Death's End, and becomes a powerful symbol at the very end of the novel. The Rural Teacher also deals with a fertile universe and the destruction of stellar systems, but unlike the Dark Forest, that universe is much more benevolent toward civilizations.Given the limited scope of the first book and the impeded scientific progress in the second, Death’s End is the only part of the trilogy to expansively explore frontier scientific ideas. The scientific foundations of the book are mostly solid and airtight, even when it feels dubious as observed by characters. Artistic licenses are only taken when it involves speculations far beyond even the frontiers of our current scientific understanding. However, one problematic aspect has to do with traveling and manipulating objects in four-dimensional space, as the novel implies that distance in 3D space can be shortened by traveling in the fourth dimension, which is incompatible with orthogonality of dimensions in the Euclidean part of space-time, and there is no metric shortening of the lower-dimensional distance by traveling in any direction in the higher-dimensional space. Of course, it is certainly possible that the local geometry of said fictional space is non-Euclidean.The author does a superb job confounding the philosophical center of the books with a very comprehensive treatment of the different beliefs in science, society, politics, religion, gender, human nature, life, etc., both through an interspersed objective omniscient narrator and through the subjective thoughts of opaque characters. Indeed, there is no true villainy in the trilogy, even when we’re dealing with genocidal alien invaders and mundicidal star destroyers. However, there remains a palpable degree of ethnocentrism and, more problematically, androcentrism that belies the author's ambitious big picture of cosmic proportions. Though the male gaze is prevalent in the first and second books, it nonetheless reflects the inner worlds of the male protagonists, if not the author himself, from an exceedingly patriarchal society. Yet what Liu perceives to be the difference between “masculine” and “feminine” values cannot be reconciled even at cosmic scales, despite the author’s clear intention to absolve and diminish all sins, aggression and weakness alike, in the grand schemes of the Dark Forest universe. It is disappointing, but forgivable.Many critics think that Death’s End is the best of the trilogy, including the translator. I disagree. Liu has written three entirely unique books out of the same story, one may even argue that they’re written in three different genres, and each succeeds and excels on its own equal footing. Nonetheless, Death’s End is the grandest, and it will blow your mind.
第973条评论: Like Book 1 of Cixin Liu’s towering The Three-Body Problem series, Book 3 begins with a siege.But while the first book opened in 1967 (during China’s Cultural Revolution), the third book—Death’s End—flashes back to 1453 (during the Ottomans’ assault on Constantinople). It’s a bit disconcerting given that the second book left off in 2213.The chronological zigzag makes sense given where the middle entry in the series concluded, however. Book 2 seemingly resolved the central conflict: Earth, threatened with invasion by aliens from Trisolaris, stumbled upon a form of deterrence relying on mutually assured destruction (not unlike the nuclear détente of the Cold War). The Trisolarans conceded defeat and changed course; humanity’s future looked secure.So without a cliffhanger to contend with—as most Book 2s bequeath to Book 3s—why not rewind a few centuries?Liu uses the opportunity to inject a bit of fantasy into his science fiction: an assassin who can remove her targets’ organs without touching them. Then he returns to the early days of the Trisolaris crisis and introduces a few more new characters. He also backfills some plot devices before finally advancing the narrative past the epilogue of Book 2.In other words, the story takes a while to get going. But the preamble has a purpose, and it becomes clear as the “Deterrence Era” devolves into something far less stable.The result is extraordinary.I still never quite connected with the characters. Liu features a different protagonist in each book, and although Cheng Xin, the lead for Death’s End, is the most sympathetic, I always felt a little distant from her.That may have been by design. “I am but an ordinary person,” she says at one point. “Unfortunately, I have not been able to walk the ordinary person’s path. My path is, in reality, the journey of a civilization.” Liu seems to have conceived of her as an avatar for humanity—or at least a facet of it, while other characters often represent our baser instincts.This scale is what impressed me most by the close of Death’s End. The series spans eons; the date for one of the last chapters is “About Seventeen Billion Years After the Beginning of Time.” Along the way, we see human culture evolve, Trisolaran culture adapt to human culture, and new civilizations enter (and exit) the galactic playing field.Liu also shows us more mind-bending science: Lightspeed travel. Black-hole shields. A “Great Wall at the scale of the universe.” Life in four dimensions. Death in two.Some of this is cloaked in clever fantasy (like the assassin’s trick in 15th century Constantinople). Other aspects are laid out in interstitial passages from A Past Outside of Time, a fake history Liu uses to bridge the time jumps and provide necessary context for a story with such a massive scope. Just about all of it worked for me by the end.In his translator’s note, Ken Liu (another fabulous author) writes, “I continue to be awed by the genius of [Cixin Liu] every time I read another passage from this novel. Of the three books in the trilogy, this third one is my favorite.”I felt the same way. The Three-Body Problem series wasn’t a quick read for me, but I won’t forget it anytime soon. What an achievement.Note: Since the translation uses the English versions of the author’s name and his characters’, I did the same in this review.
第974条评论: It's hard to know where to begin talking about The Three-Body Problem trilogy (officially known as the Remembrance of Earth's Past series), a truly staggering piece of science-fiction written by Chinese author Cixin Liu and translated to English by Ken Liu and Joel Martinsen (Liu did books 1 and 3, while Martinsen did 2). A trilogy that spans literally thousands of years, deals with quantum physics, game theory, sociology, religion, space exploration, space colonization, and more, all driven by the nature of first contact with alien intelligence - there's a lot going on in this series, and that's before you start realizing just how much Cixin (reminder: Chinese names are traditionally written with the family name first and the given name second) truly takes on the advanced science of his ideas. And yet, when you finish it, you realize that you've read something truly incredible - a piece of hard science-fiction whose ambition, scope, richness, and ideas are impossible not to find yourself thinking about for days afterward.Death's End, the series' final volume, feels like yet another shift in the series, just as The Dark Forest was a shift from The Three-Body Problem. Because if the first two volumes were about how we come to terms with the fact that we're not alone in the universe, the final volume is about what it's like to realize that you - and every other civilization that's ever lived - are limited in your time, and might one day have no choice but to end?Once again using the previous book as a launching point, Death's End takes on the uneasy stalemate we were left with, but watches as things shift quickly out of control in the exact way the end of The Dark Forest feared they might. Just like the others, Death's End is undeniably the final part of this saga, but it feels like its own book, giving us another new central character and a very different tone, one that finds itself wondering which is more important: survival or morality? And as usual, Cixin doesn't believe in easy answers.Spanning even more time than the other books, Death's End unfolds on an epic scale, as humanity tries to find a way to prevent itself from being viewed as a threat by the rest of the galaxy. But is the sacrifice worth it - in other words, is safety so important that we should cripple ourselves as a race? Do we escape and leave our planet behind, setting out as nomads across the galaxy? Or do we try to intimidate others, showing that we're not to be messed with? Death's End deals with these questions as it has in the other novels, diving into the science, the game theory, and the objections, and giving readers the sense that sometimes, there are no easy answers to be given.Indeed, what's so compelling about Death's End is the main character, who takes choices that so often feel like the wrong ones for a situation - I often found myself almost screaming at her for being wrong...and yet, you understand why she's doing them, and can almost agree. Where do we draw the line between survival and being a monster? What's acceptable to do in order to save ourselves? And does it truly matter, on a large enough time scale?Over the course of Death's End, Cixin draws all of the series' various threads into focus thematically, making it clear that this is a series about recontextualizing our place in the universe and how we would react to that. But he's done so, once again, by focusing on a small group of characters, advanced and thoughtful explorations of science and philosophy, and a story that's engrossing on both the macro and micro level. And while the series comes to an appropriately complex, epic ending, I love how even to the end, Cixin makes it equally about the larger questions and about these characters and the choices they have to make - and their own emotional stakes as well.To explain this series is a difficult challenge, to put it mildly. This is a series that spans a huge amount of time, deals with advanced scientific concepts in complex terms, grapples with rich philosophical and political ideas, debates questions without easy answers, and gives you a scope that can be daunting. It's a story of alien invasions, yes, but one in which the action sequences we're so used to are replaced with existential dread, a rethinking of our own lives, and a fear of the unknown that's hard to quantify. It's also the story of people caught up in these times, trying to give themselves a good life while never forgetting the larger questions of their era, and juggling their own fears with fears for humanity. In other words, it's what hard science-fiction is great at - thoughtful questions, big ideas, and speculation, all of which change the way you think about the world.This series is a truly incredible achievement, one that honestly left me a bit staggered and reeling as I attempt to think about it all, but one that I love all the more for what it accomplishes. If you're a hard science-fiction fan, or simply someone who loves dealing with the complex ramifications of common ideas, this is a must read series. I've never read anything like it in my life, and I'm a richer person for the ideas it's inspired me to think about.
第975条评论: I almost gave up reading the first book due to the slow build, unfamiliar writing style and difficult to remember character names for my Western tongue. But wow, the third book took this saga into epic mind blowing territory and now I see why this won the Hugo award. The author has built and visualized the operation of the universe, multiple universes and in multiple dimensions. Most sci-fi focuses on alien cultures and invents interesting science to make it interesting, this book focuses almost entirely on the fundamental mechanics of the universe which is far more difficult to do but Cixin Liu created a masterpiece.
第976条评论: Many years ago, I decided that I would no longer read new book series until all the books were published.  I became tired of reading something I really liked and then being forced to wait years for the follow-up when the original story had started to fade.  This may be the first time that I wished I wouldn’t have waited so long to read something.  I can say without reservation that this trilogy is the best science fiction I have read in at least a decade.  Granted, I don’t read as much science fiction as I used to.  Still, I would put this trilogy on the shelf next to Asimov’s original Foundation trilogy and not feel a bit of embarrassment.  (And I worshipped Asimov when I was a teenager.)Each novel in this trilogy has a real inventiveness that builds on, but does not simply repeat, the brilliant ideas of the predecessor.  After establishing the dark forest deterrence at the end of the last novel, Mr. Liu creates the idea for the “Swordholder” in this novel, who is the human in charge of maintaining the deterrence.  We learn of various ways alien intelligences battle each other and protect themselves from each other.  We explore different dimensions of space and bubble universes.  We see disembodied brains.  We see curvature lightspeed drives and their impact on the universe.  There is so much that I cannot begin to describe it all.  However, what I think I like the best is Mr. Liu’s understanding that, whatever we expect from an encounter with an intelligent alien race, the actual experience will be something we could never have imagined.Though I find it difficult to argue with the worlds he has created, Mr. Liu’s view of the universe is decidedly dark.  However, it is not dark in a blood and gore American way.  Rather, it is a philosophical darkness that permeates these novels and finds its apex here.  He makes no bones about the fact that he believes humanity is nothing but a wisp that will be swept away by the immensity of the universe.  Still, he also understands the desire to let something of our presence, our culture, survive.  It’s heady stuff.And it is science fiction with what seems to be its inherent weaknesses.  Mr. Liu seems to be able to handle only one major character per novel with any depth.  This time it is Cheng Xin, hibernator from our era, Swordholder, poor decision-maker, and survivor.  Other than her friend, AA, and her frienemies, Sophon and Wade, there is no one really who even begins to stretch beyond a necessary stereotype.  I also find the “fairy tales” that Mr. Liu inserts into this novel to be a real drag on the pace, much as the three-body problem game was in the first novel.  Since this novel is significantly longer, it is even more noticeable.Still, this novel will sit with the other two in the trilogy as a triumph.  I am so astounded by the ideas that Mr. Liu explores that I don’t think this story will ever fade from my memory.  It is truly magnificent.
第977条评论: This is actually a review for the entire trilogy of Remembrance of Earth's Past. I found the series both interesting and frustrating, but ultimately a letdown.The first two books appealed to me as smart physics puzzles and sociological studies with some political thriller mixed in: technologically advanced aliens have to leave their unstable solar system; when they intercept a SETI-style message from Earth, they dispatch a fleet to take over the planet. The fleet will arrive in 400 years (due to distance and lack of warp-drive ships). The author has a great time investigating various physics-related angles of technological development (unfolding higher dimensions into lower ones, artificial intelligence, propulsion systems for spacecraft, etc.) plus sociological and psychological effects (how humans react to a certain but distant threat, the existence of other intelligences, conflict within human society compared to an external threat, and so on).The second book throws in another wrinkle:  cosmic sociology,which posits that the ultimate goal of every civilization is to survive, and that due to difficulty in communication and total lack of trust, any contact between two civilizations will result in the more advanced immediately and arbitrarily destroying the other (the "dark forest" scenario, in which every civilization is lurking like a hunter in the forest, concealing itself and shooting at anything that moves). That's pretty dark, but one of the characters comes to a smart solution to stalemate the conflict. So far,so good, with the author playing "fair," using his own rules and setting up events that pay off later....Until the last book, which abandons that fair-play principle, as well as the hard-science fiction view of the characters. Instead of observing various people from a distance (as most hard-SF books and movies do) as factors in a larger interlocking chain of events, the third book narrows down to one woman. She's initially introduced as a specialist in physics and engineering, and does get one project to show what a great problem solver she is--but then the author dives into her emotions, giving her a core of "maternal instinct" that boils down to "don't let anybody get hurt at the moment, whether the ultimate outcome will be good or not." From there, the author puts her in the position to make three decisions that literally determine the fate of Earth, the Solar System, and (it is implied) the entire universe. And that's where it all falls apart. Sure, the applications of physics and technology are interesting and rooted in current theory, and the broader sociological/governmental reactions seem accurate (governments passing short-sighted laws, the public reactionary and fickle, most people selfishly looking out for themselves, etc.), and the author's still having a wonderful time exploring everything from collapsing dimensions to techniques for lightspeed travel to what lower lightspeed would look like, but the story resorts to coincidences, weird character choices, and luck to make sure that the main character is in the right position each time.Cixin breaks his own parameters for the "dark forest," with one character toward the end of Book 3 tossing off a line about how the refugees from Earth actually have run into members of other civilizations, who apparently do communicate and interact with each other--one planet is even  close  to a major shipping lane! I appreciate an author's right to pursue any story he wants to, with no obligation to follow other lines that the readers suggest, but it seems weird to introduce an entire alternate viewpoint to the "hide or kill" environment without even a follow-up sentence. The original aliens and all kinds of human characters act out of character, displaying interests, attitudes, talents or abilities that weren't set up originally, like a mid-level clerk suddenly developing amazing literary talent, a sociopathic striver suddenly giving in to sentimental twaddle, and all kinds of brilliant scientists completely missing important clues while picking up others easily.To make it worse, Cheng Xin, that new "motherly" (but single and no children and no real connections to anybody) main character we follow through Book 3 is not even interesting--she's suicidally depressed over making choices that turn out badly, and revives only enough to make the next disastrous decision. Her one-dimensionality and the way the events constantly prove her wrong were stark enough to make me wonder if the author meant to disparage feminine abilities in general as based in emotion instead of reason (everything she does is out of "love"), and therefore weak or stupid (though he does give us a hard-charging capitalist girl who is very competent indeed). But Cixin isn't interested in developing Cheng Xin beyond a sentimental drama queen; he's much more intrigued with exploring the eventual death of the universe. In fact, the title of the last book is "The End of Death," which seems pretty ironic, since of course Death ends when the universe does. So for me the series was a letdown at the end for lots of story-related reasons.But the biggest underlying problem, from my perspective, is that the author and all the characters bought into the idea that physical life is the highest good--survival is all that matters, and even surviving under horrible circumstances at great cost is preferable to death. Compassion, honor, striving, serving, self-sacrifice, bravery, and hope/faith in something greater don't have any place in that value system. reading all 1800 pages was a stark lesson in the ultimate poverty of materialism--if life is all there is, and the quality of life doesn't matter, no wonder the overall outlook is so amazingly dark and grim! The closest to a positive mindset any of the characters got was just "carpe diem"--live as comfortably as you can right now, and don't worry about the future, the next generation, or the ultimate meaning of anything. No wonder the whole story felt like such a pointless, depressing scramble toward nothing!Oh, and the "ambiguous" ending doesn't help matters--once again, we have Cheng Xin making a decision that we have reason to believe, from all previous evidence, will turn out badly for everyone.
第978条评论: Death’s End is the concluding volume of Cixin Liu’s Remembrance of Earth’s Past trilogy.  If you haven’t read the first two books, don’t begin here.  But definitely begin, because this is the most magnificent science fiction work I have ever read, and I have read almost all of them.The first book in the trilogy, The Three Body Problem, was a very nice work, but ultimately the least engaging of the three.  The Dark Forest was the best book I’ve ever read, of any genre.  It contained elements of anthropology, sociology, philosophy and outstanding hard science fiction concepts and scenarios.  It was simply magnificent, and ended in such a manner that a third book was not necessarily required.Well, Death’s End picks up where Dark Forest leaves off, in fact with a little overlap in order to introduce the main protagonist in the final work.  For three hundred pages, Death’s End was every bit the equal of Dark Forest, but then there occurs a roughly 100 page segment that is so dumb, so contrived and so out of character with the other 1500 pages of the trilogy that it made me question who had written it and why it was there.It is not really a spoiler to reveal that the referenced 100 pages involve a rather silly fairy tale (for some reason they refer to three tales, though there is really only one, split into three chapters).  The fairy tale is part of an inter-stellar conversation between two of the book’s main characters in which one is trying to convey a message through the use of metaphor.  The Trisolarans have allowed and even initiated the conversation, but under very strict guidelines that limit information that can be conveyed, under penalty of death.  Then, they allow a 50 page fairy tale to be conveyed, and memorized word for word by one of the characters.  Sure, that makes sense.  I guess the incredibly advanced Trisolarans don’t understand the concept of metaphor and think telling a 50 page fairy tale would be normal conversation under the circumstances.There follows another 50 pages in which the Earth Federation goes about deciphering the fairy tale in such a way that is even dumber and even more senseless than the fact that the fairy tale was conveyed in the first place.SPOILER: In one of the most incredibly stupid moments of any book I’ve ever read, the experts are stumped by a particular place name in the fairy tale.  Luckily for them, one of the analysts talks in his sleep.  After muttering the mysterious place name in his sleep, he is informed by his live-in girlfriend that the name is actually a combination of two place names in Norway, and not just any place names; names that have not been used for centuries.  Luckily for him, his Norwegian girlfriend is a scholar in ancient Norwegian place names.  Lucky humans, what are the chances.Then, like nothing ever happened, the novel returns to absolute excellence for the final 300 pages.  It is the damndest thing; like listening to a two hour concert featuring the works of Mozart that is interrupted for ten minutes by a cacophonous din of meaningless music, and completely unnecessary as the author could have easily gotten where he needed to go without such a bizarre detour.  For such a magnificent work to be marred in such a way is a shame, because one of the strengths of the trilogy is its believability and rock solid hard science fiction.  Character actions and plot lines flow so smoothly because they are imminently believable and flawlessly crafted.In any event, it is the best science fiction series I’ve experienced; far more complex and engaging than the Foundation works and so much more approachable and enjoyable than the Dune novels.  If a 20 year old asked me where to start in reading science fiction, I would direct him to Foundation and other Asimov works.  If a 40 year old, who had sampled much of the genre asked the same question, I would insist that he read this trilogy.  Afterwards, he would thank me for the suggestion but ask, “What was up with that stupid fairy tale.”
第979条评论: This book covered a lot of time. It was interesting but not as good as the other two books. However, the last chapter in Part 2 was the best chapter of the series in my opinion. I loved that chapter so much - I don't want to give spoilers but it made me think I about a topic I already enjoy thinking about in a whole new way, basically I usually think of the 4th dimension as time but what if?