
第1条评论: Earth encounters an advanced extra terrestrial civilization intent on destroying human civilisation.  How would we defend ourselves?  Could we grow and respond?  Perhaps we have a powerful value that we have not yet realized.
第2条评论: I’ll have to say, you need at least a general understanding of the concepts of physics to follow this book, if not, you might be bogged down at points. The Chinese Cultural Revolution, I’m ashamed to say, was an unknown to me and this period in the book captured my attention. I really liked policemen Shia, as the annoyingly rude but spot on common sense character. I’ll be interested to see how Netflix turns this into a series and hopefully it stay true to the book.
第3条评论: Interesting, slow buildup, big payoff. It’s the sort of story that gives you chills once you see the entire scope of it. I have to see what happens next!
第4条评论: One of the best sci-fi books I’ve read in a while. I hope the rest of the series is as good.
第5条评论: I spent the first half of this book telling myself that my negative reactions to it existed in the realm of cross-cultural communications, and that it was not a failing on the part of the writer.  Somewhere around half way through, I decided that the real issue is that the author isn't a particularly good writer, which is not necessarily the same as being or not being a compelling story teller, which I believe he is.There are three story lines in this book: one in the past, during Mao Zedong's "cultural revolution"  and told in flashbacks, a second and primary story line in the present,  and a third story line that takes place in the present in a virtual reality puzzle game, but where the game also parallels the history of an alien species on their home world in the past.The story line that begins toward the end of the cultural revolution in China and follows a physicist whose father was tortured and executed by the party, follows her along a path that leads her to first contact with an alien race, and the choices she makes regarding contact with that race -- that story is interesting and compelling.  And how that story is integrated into the structure of the book as a whole is handled skillfully.The primary story line in the present is itself interesting in subject matter, though childlike in structure.  The characters are largely wooden, and the narrative structure feels like a quest-oriented video game.  We watch the character move from Point A to B, where someone tells him something and tells him to head to Point C, where someone tells him something and gives him an object to carry to Point D, where... so on... and so on... and so on....  And while one might say that ALL narratives universally follow this model to some degree, most don't do it in such transparent fashion.  It reads like one of the old "choose your own adventure" books, but where someone has already chosen the adventure for me.The third story-line that takes place in the VR video game is flat out boring.  At the beginning, it was moderately intriguing, but this story-line gets its own chapters -- MANY of them -- and after a few, I could see that these chapters were the author's self-indulgent darling.  I largely skipped these chapters in part or in whole in the second half of the book, and I lost nothing.  There is, in the school/art of writing, a common directive to "murder (or kill) our darlings (or babies)," and while it is attributed to countless writers, the original comes from Arthur Quiller-Couch:"Whenever you feel an impulse to perpetrate a piece of exceptionally fine writing, obey it—whole-heartedly—and delete it before sending your manuscript to press. Murder your darlings."And that's the sin of the virtual reality chapters - the author of this book sent his big fat darling to press.  These chapters are the part of the book that the author is most in love with, and the part of the book that the reader least needs.  The following is not a spoiler -- it's a mercy:"An alien race lived on a planet in a system with three suns, and the unpredictable, chaotic nature of three-body orbital physics lead to the rapid rise and fall of civilizations on the lone, surviving planet in the system until one civilization finally concluded that if they were to survive as a species, they needed to leave the planet and settle on a world in another system, and they devoted all the civilization's resources to that end."Trust me -- if you read that lengthy sentence above, you can skip all the VR chapters.  Is there detail you're missing?  A lot.  Is that missing detail relevant to the main story?  NOT AT ALL.After having given this book 3 stars and more or less trashing two-thirds of it, I will say that I have not yet read, but I have bought book 2.  ?!?!?!?!?!  What?!?!  The present day plot line, and its origins in Mao Zedong's cultural revolution are compelling, and I want to finish the story.  It also helps that I have read from people who have had similar complaints as mine regarding the first book that the second and third books are better.Compelling story-telling overall.  Amateur writing.
第6条评论: Okay, let's do this. I've got 2 degrees, an IQ number to be proud of and a decent background in science fiction. So, I think I can offer up a review of this book despite some of my time within it spent in the Baffleverse.The good: - It takes a while to manifest, but the plot finally develops over the last - hmm - 25%-30% of the book. Once its form coalesces, you should find yourself nodding silently as you finish up this first book of a trilogy. - This book throws out concepts by the bucketful. Fascinating and sometimes overwhelming, there's enough to mentally chew on throughout the tale to keep active minds engaged. - Science Fiction and Speculative Fiction, always a fun combo. It's not just about extraordinary events interfacing with humanity, it's also about the psychology of humanity as it attempts to interface with said extraordinary events. This path is probably the book's shining feat. (What I used to call socio-science fiction, back in my John Brunner days). - Unique characters that afford a nice swath of the human condition. This allows the writer to explore human perspectives from various points of views. Smart.The not so good: - As some have mentioned, character development is in short supply. The "lead" in this book is the science. The supporting character is societal change. Oh, and there are also some humans in the book, too, but they are too often simple tools for plot movement or exposition. None are developed to the point where the reader gains a relationship with them. The book definitely has an "outside looking in" feel to it. - Chinese names. Let's just get it out of the way. I couldn't imagine, after decades of reading science fiction with all those strange alien names, that Chinese names would prove so distracting early on in the book. Perhaps knowing they were "real" names made the difference. In any case, the distraction fades after a while, but in an already difficult to get started book, that doesn't help. - The aforementioned slow start. I freely admit, my "hardest" science fiction experience was basically Larry Niven. This stuff is a (no pun intended) quantum leap into incomprehensible, at least for a non-science major like me. Fortunately, a lifetime of science fiction and some good guesswork enabled me to at least grasp the sense of the science, but, especially at the beginning, not so much fun.Overall, I like the book on several levels. I bemoan the lack of characterization (a problem Niven seemed to share...I wonder if that's endemic to "hard science" science fiction writers). There was enough entertainment for me to consider exploring the second book of the trilogy.
第7条评论: Epic... There really is no other word for this trilogy and yes, although this review is attached to the first book in the series, I'm writing it after finishing the third part - you have to make the commitment to the full story.A problem with writing a review for this work, with its vast scope and eye-popping concepts is that there is little to compare it with, there were parts that reminded me of the Helliconia stories, there were nods in the direction of Arthur C Clarke, Van Vogt, Azimov and even Norse Mythology - there's certainly a strong echo of Ragnarok in the third book but I can't really think of any modern writing that comes close to Cixin Liu's ambition and vision. It can't have been an easy book to write - don't expect it to be an easy one to read.So, no spoilers, just a some pointers that may help if you are thinking of taking the plunge.The language: Obviously this was written originally in Chinese so a lot relies on the quality of the translation. Personally I think that the translation works better in the second and third book although I know others disagree and would put that around the other way. In translation, the writing is elegant and evocative with just enough 'difference' remaining to give the writing a slightly alien quality that adds to the atmosphere. I would not be in the least surprised to hear that it has inspired readers to want to learn the language to read it in its original form - in much the same way that people have learnt Spanish to read Don Quixote.The Characters: The balance is about right - well developed lead characters, as deep and complex as the story, supported by a wide ranging cast of flatter archetypes. Their strengths and flaws (of which there are many) are those of people who are both ordinary and remarkable at the same time. I found that I wanted to learn more about many of the supporting cast - watch out for a character called Wade, I really want to know his back-story.The Science & Technology: Despite all the SF tech, one of the strengths of these books is that somehow, none of it seemed far-fetched. Every invention, every breakthrough was a logical extension of something that preceded it. It was handled so well that, on more than one occasion, I found myself wanting more details about how something worked, almost forgetting that I was reading a work of SF. The way that the secret to achieving lightspeed travel was discovered was particularly well done.The Story Itself: While the majority of the story takes place over a period of a few hundred years the whole arc stretches from the opening scene in the cultural revolution in China through to pretty much the end of the universe. There are many twists accompanied by highs and lows that actually justify the use of the cliche 'emotional roller-coaster'. There are grand space battles, brain transplants, space-cities orbiting Jupiter and high adventure. But there are also moments of peace and tranquility, there are fairy stories and a recurring theme around the power of forgiveness. At times, it's a warts and all look at humanity and many of those warts are pretty ugly.Do I recommend it? yes, wholeheartedly. If you, like me, see 'hard' sf as a genre that started in the golden age under guidance of people like John W Campbell, then the Three Body trilogy probably represents the current pinnacle - the state of the art.
第8条评论: • “The Three-Body Problem” by Cixin Liu is a convoluted but clever criticism of the CCP and China’s earlier dynasties. China is ruled by three cultural/political/social bodies of gravity that are in unpredictable motion around each other. These three sinister bodies projects governmental forces that wreaks havoc on the Chinese people and culture again and again thru the ages.• The current Chinese rulers, the CCP, have finally understood that they cannot solve China’s recurring problem with governance, by themselves thru Scientific Materialism a.k.a. Marxism mixed with state capitalism a.k.a fascism. In the antagonist Ye’s words. “It was impossible to expect a moral awakening from humankind itself, just like it was impossible to expect humans to lift off the earth by pulling up on their own hair. To achieve moral awakening required a force outside the human race.” p.28• In order to solve China’s eternal problem with governance CCP will copy the West and become imperialistic and colonize the Third World, like Europe solved its historical problems by imperialism and colonialism in previous centuries and USA currently does by cultural imperialism and waging endless wars elsewhere.• The CCP are the imperialistic aliens, and CCP are now busy construction their ‘star drive’ named ”The Belt and Road Initiative”, and upgrading PLA to be able to project its force globally. It will probably take less than 30 years before CCP is strong enough to succeed, and the Third World will again be colonized, and the Western world subdued.• Among Western and foreign elites, there are since 1972 organizations like ETO and the “Adventists” and “Receptionists”. They call themselves Deep Ecology and their not-so-secret aim is to eradicate Humanity. Amply financed by famous billionaires.• Cixin Liu’s two dimensional writing style and Ken Liu’s translation is Orwellian effective in creating a loveless, bureaucratic, and sterile Dystopia i.e., current China. The only ‘intelligent’ way out is suicide or genocide or live in a fantasy world eating garbage i.e., “Pastoral China” p.83, 84.• “The Three-Body Problem” is in an important sense about China on the same path as prewar Germany; hurt, humiliated and out for revenge and world hegemony. But where the National Socialist German Workers' Party failed in 1945 the CCP might prevail a hundred years later if we don’t resist forcefully. Only the Han people can be held responsible for bringing forth and nurture all those cruel emperors including CCP, which gave birth to the monster Ye. Cixin Liu never blames the imperialistic and capitalistic West for China’s problem.• Chapter “Two Protons” explain how CCP see us Foreign Devils “In the eyes of Trisolaran [CCP] civilization, we’re probably not even primitive savages. We might be mere bugs.” The rest of the book is technobabble to conceal the warning message so the book could be published in China. The Shooter and Farmer (SF) paranormal fable has no more scientific credibility than Disney’s “Wish upon a star”• And now over to the protagonist Wang’s concept of God. His condition is dismal and frightening. Listen to Wang’s experiencing God; "He felt a strange, perverse, immense presence that could never be understood by human intellect. Maybe it signals the end of the whole world. In this perverse world, that would be a relief.” p127. Wang has no life, just survival.• The Universe, Life and Humans were divinely created and scientifically designed for a benign purpose. The evidence for intelligent supernatural design is astronomically overwhelming compared to the impossibility of a Universe and Human Life by unintended chance or accident, see “The Return of the God Hypothesis” by Stephen Meyer.• If you like reading critique of Western culture and science in a SF setting, full of warmth, justice, grace, humor and hope I recommend Dean Koontz’s “Brother Odd”.
第9条评论: Without getting too in depth, I feel like I'm missing a lot by reading a translation instead of the original.  The story is interesting enough and I don't mind reading the footnotes that explain cultural nuances, but the language the translator chose doesn't feel as sophisticated as I am used to reading in English sci-fi.  It did take away from the pleasure of the reading experience for me, but your results may vary.
第10条评论: This first volume of a three volume series posits a first contact with an alien civilization that is likely to turn out very badly for humanity. Astrophysicist Ye Wenjie must watch as her brilliant scientist father is publicly humiliated and then killed by a group of fanatic Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution.  She herself suffers in a labor camp and is betrayed by a man whom she makes the mistake of trusting. Her earlier research and a former student of her father saves her and places her in a top secret installation where the government is attempting to find traces of alien life in the galaxy.  It is Ye who makes the unexpected contact, and despite warning from the alien  who receives her message to break contact, she follows up, offering to a desperate and advanced civilization Earth coordinates where they can relocate. The alien civilization engages the top minds in the scientific community in a "computer game" called Three Body, which in reality shows the  Chaotic three solar system causing constant disruption on their planet.  This is an amazingly complex book, with a strikingly novel and very science based plot.  Cixin Liu is apparently immensely popular in China, evidence if we need more that the Chinese are likely to take over the world  - many Americans may struggle with the scientific and mathematical concepts. Though I have a grounding in science I had to battle through pages of scientific explanation, perhaps necessary for understanding but hardly advancing the plot.  Also I didn't much care about the characters, even the most important ones.  Still, the story itself is  original and clever, no doubt about it.  I bought this book because of the rave reviews, so clearly there is something I am missing.  But I found the translation not only unpleasing but somewhat off-putting.  Mr. K. Liu has a technical background, so he can easily handle the scientific complexities of the text, but he obviously is much less familiar with well crafted English writing.  The substitution of the preposition  "like" for the conjunction "as" throughout the book, without exception, I found particularly jarring. "Like I said..." is fine in colloquial speech, but even when we have the cream of the Chinese scientific community discussing lofty concepts,  that irritating "like" keeps cropping up.  If is as if,  (or should I say "it is like"),  Mr. K. Liu has never learned the word "as." Other sentences seem to have been translated directly from Chinese to English, leaving them with an un-English quality.  An often repeated remark about translation is that if it is beautiful it is not not faithful, and if it is faithful it is not beautiful.  Perhaps this is the problem,  that Mr. K. Liu is so faithful to the original Chinese  that his prose interferes with the reader's immersion.  In any case, though I admire the cleverness of the plot , I was not inclined to start the second in the series.  Many other readers obviously feel differently, so I recommend that you read it and make your own decision.
第11条评论: Liu Cixin's "The Three-Body Problem" starts out as a series of disjointed narratives that gradually come together to form a very interesting and worthwhile story. While some might find the non-linear structure to be rather off-putting, I felt that it was necessary in order to provide the reader with the grand scope the author so obviously wishes to carve out. Such a grandiose narrative is necessary when you have a saga where important details emerge during the time of the Cultural Revolution, gradually setting us up for a fairly pessimistic tale regarding an alien invasion and the future of our species. My main point of critique would be that for much of the time, the novel sacrifices character and plot development for scientific and technical explanations - but then again, such complexities are commonplace and expected within the realm of "hard" science fiction.
第12条评论: This is a story filled with so much science that I found myself googling theories and problems to truly understand them, and to know if they were actual facts - what is the three-body problem? how many dimensions are there? what is a syzygy? what dimension does a proton exists in?It starts off with Ye Wenjie witnessing the death of her father during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. This gets events in motion, where Ye goes on to work in a military base secret project. Things jump ahead years in the future to nanoscientist Wang Miao experiencing impossible science phenomena like numbers appearing out of nowhere and a "blinking universe." Much of the story also takes place in an online game called Three-Body, and even on a distant planet.At times the science gets heavy, and I'm thankful for certain characters that can slow things down. Other times it can feel like information is being dumped when you really just want to know what happens after that.But overall, this is a read that I will surely be thinking about for a long time.
第13条评论: I enjoyed the book a lot.  It's heavier reading than a lot of sci fi these days which is fine by me.  I'm off to read the second book now.
第14条评论: I'll write down my humble thoughts on this great novel.A very intriguing story in the way of the Foundation series although it is more focused more on the science end but still quite enjoyable. It has a very slow start but picks up after a couple of chapters.I think anyone with a science background will start to geek out at certain parts of the story. It's not overwhelming though, as the author is quite skilled at simplifying all the science discussions and thus allowing it to be accessible to anyone. Logic Gates? Transmission bands? So much more.Starts off in the Cultural Revolution where the ideology is dogmatic to the point where symbols, abstract thoughts and scientific terms are considered heresy.  It’s tragically amusing learning what eventually happens to the dogmatic communists and the “masses” easily shed their revolutionary ways when capitalism starts to set in. Goes into different timelines from different character perspective but organized properly. It’s well paced and everything is explained in detail.The Virtual Reality chapters will seem a bit abstract at first but will eventually make sense and reading it will pay off in the later chapters.The Aliens have a very interesting life cycle.Apparently we're bugs but they're still scared of us.
第15条评论: This is the best book I've read in a year, and I read omnivorously. From the first sample, which I began with some skepticism, to the end, where I felt sorrowful, I was amazed by the depth of the author's command of both physics and human emotions. Mr. Liu says in his interviews, and in the postscript to the book, that his special gift is a kind of synesthesia. He can make physical concepts like strings (from string theory) seem real to regular people. It is like being able to describe a Bach cantata in colors. Liu takes as his premise some historical realities of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, counterposed on an increasingly dark view of the impact of human beings on the natural world, and then he takes these ideas to completely unexpected limits.  I don't want to be a spoiler. To call this a book of "hard sci fi" is to minimize it, because hard sci fi is usually heavier on the science than the fiction. In this case, the character development is superb, and the physics entertaining. To say that this book is about a clash of civilizations, Earth against Aliens, is also to demean it, because at least in this volume (the first of a trilogy) there is as much or more human-human interaction than human-Alien interaction. I loved reading this book, can't wait for Volume 2, and when is Volume 3 coming out, People of Amazon?
第16条评论: It's very obvious, while reading this book, that the author is Chinese... he frequently talks about the "political" aspects of what each of the characters are doing. However, this doesn't detract from the story, which is original and very difficult to predict. Many books I read I have a fairly good idea how it's going to end, but with this 3-book series I have NO IDEA how it's going to end. It's fairly technical, but that adds to the story rather than detracting from it. The translation is perfect, which is refreshing. One chapter starts from the perspective of a spider crawling up a gravestone, while two of the characters are standing in front of it talking... which I thought was an extremely original way to advance the story and put an image in my head that I will carry with me forever. It's resonant scenes like that that make this book a pleasure to read and make me want to read just one more chapter to see where he's going next. I'm in the middle of book 2 and will be buying book 3 soon. This is not a "light" read, but it does reward you for sticking with it and thinking about what he's saying.
第17条评论: This is one of the best science fiction books I have read. Although a hard SF novel at heart, it reads much more like a techno-thriller which keeps the book from becoming too heavy like a lot of other SF novels. The story revolves around the idea of first contact with an alien civilization which is one of my favorite topics as it allows for an introspection of our own civilization while pulling the reader into the mystery of an Other one. I loved the physics parts in the book. These are advanced concepts explained quite simply for the layman reader. I am intrigued enough by some of the hypotheses put forward here which I am sure have there bases in real science, that I will dig deeper to understand more.My only problem is that the characters in the book talk like expeditionary devices instead of real people. This could be due to the translation from Chinese as I understand it must be quite difficult to get the cultural subtleties across to the reader of a different society in a book which is not exclusively focused on such a topic. Its quite easy to get used to the characters once the plot starts unraveling, so it isn't such a huge deal.
第18条评论: If life were just, I would be in a perfectly repeating time loop whereupon finishing Death's End, I return to right before I read the Three Body Problem Trilogy for the first time.  I rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat, and am trapped in the most luminous imaginings until further notice.I've read everything, written about much of it, taken more degrees than are worth it, rubbed elbows with cultures, legendary leaders, scholars, and thinkers, peoples diverse and fascinating...and then I have read this trilogy of books.So many incredible sagas enrich our global library;  however, without the Three Body Trilogy, something would be missing from my life that could not quite be fixed, not quite replaced by anything else.  This makes me sound obsessive or unwell in some fashion, but that's not it:  even Obama was challenged by how to pin down just how extraordinary this trilogy is when he described it as "wildly imaginative."All I can say is, read it.  Now.  Get to it.  You won't regret reading it.  You'll regret not having read it sooner.  And then you'll regret that you can't have the lovely experience of encountering it for the first time again.
第19条评论: A tour de force of hard sci-fi; I found it difficult to guess which way the plot was going to turn and certainly didn't expect the twist about two-thirds in. Some of the physics may be hard to follow but it is written (and translated) so well that it didn't really matter if I was a little hazy on my quantum mechanics... Similarly for the politics. Many Western readers will not be as familiar with Chinese political history as they are with their own but, again, the author did not rely on any more than a rough knowledge e.g. you should know that Chairman Mao was a big player in the 60's :)! I found the translator's notes to be extremely helpful but unobtusive in plugging some of my knowledge gaps - I highly recommend you read them at the time they appear.That the book is set in China is part of the appeal. It isn't essential to the plot (it IS essential to the character development) but adds a unique flavour to the novel. This is 'real China', not a mish-mash of stereotypes of, e.g. whispy mustachioed wizened old men serving Confucious wisdom alongside noodles. As such, I found it said more about our shared humanity than superficial national differences.An excellent read and I can't wait to get onto his next book!
第20条评论: I found myself enjoying the historical setting of the novel as much as I enjoyed the science fiction part of it. I don't read much fiction set in this very different world of recent Chinese history and it is itself a frightening and alien world that the author then reflects back into the larger universe. The prose is unadorned and 'thriller like' - fast paced and not really literary. This might be a conscious effect that the translator wanted to convey or a limit of the translation. Word usage also seems a bit odd at times (I noticed it particularly in the choice of words used to describe human reactions to events - people are sometimes 'amazed' by the oddest things and with little warning, for instance!). But as scheduled envelope fiction it works well, bringing alive the possibility of an unimaginable world and people, as well as unimaginable technology. I do wish some of the unimaginable technology was left a bit more mysterious rather than 'fleshed out' since it is not particularly meaningful, but that's an authors prerogative I guess.  Overall, an enjoyable, quick read.
第21条评论: With less than 20 pages left to read - but The Dark Forest (book 2) already ordered - I highly doubt that anything will happen to screw the story up; so I'm comfortable in giving my 2-cents now!I'm not going to write paragraph after paragraph providing a detailed synopsis like some; I'll just summarize by saying that despite a slow start, (caused mainly by all the footnotes connecting these fictional characters with real events from 20th century Chinese cultural history), once it does pick up speed you'll quickly forget all about the rough start. This is a "thinking person's" SF story, and does ask the reader to have some basic-to-intermediate understanding of computers, astrophysics & science/engineering principles; but the Author (and/or the translator) does a pretty good job in making those parts digestible for most.If you enjoy "Alien Invasion" stories, yet always wish they gave you some more background as to what both the humans & aliens were thinking & doing before the actual invasion began, this story is for you. I am looking quite forward to the last 20 pages, and can't wait to start The Dark Forest!I don't know if anything was lost in translation from Chinese to English,
第22条评论: A great historical/technical read. It's not light reading, but I got a lot out of it. Now on to the next volume.
第23条评论: Such a good sci-if book narrated against a very relevant political background even in today’s age. Amazing and so sad that the whole series is kindle unlimited.
第24条评论: There is a lot to think about in this book.  It delves into a lot of scientific, philosophical, political and social issues, without being preachy about any of them.  The fact that it is originally written for a Chinese audience added to its interest, for me.  The book covered the time from the Cultural Revolution to the recent past, showing what incredible changes China has gone through.  It is interesting how Western and non-Western modern China seems, all at the same time.The writing (translation too) is very polished and the characters are well rounded, interesting and easy to relate to.  I though I might have trouble keeping up with the Chinese names, but that didn't turn out to be a problem for me.I have ordered the second book in the trilogy.
第25条评论: This book is just a good read if you are a fan of sci-fi and looking for something that is a bit different.  There are parts in the book where author goes into a great deal about physics.  Mind you, I'm not a the biggest fan of these moments, but the rest of the book makes up for that, for me. The book keeps having me wonder, "Ooo what's going to happen next", it did a good job building up the setting and the main story of this series.  Not to spoil anything, but learning about the 3 body game, what it means, how some of the characters react to certain situations, it keeps you coming back.  I'm on the second book and so far it hasn't disappointed me yet either.  The translator did a excellent job, there were one or two spots that slip through, but nothing major and the added notes at the bottom for certain words/events really help out.  I would defiantly give this one a chance if you are debating about it and judging from how far I'm in the second book, this is gonna be a great series!
第26条评论: This is an interesting and unusual read. The sci-fi part of the book is good – well thought-through, some new and interesting ideas, and few (but some) theoretical flaws.The form is unusual. I don't know if this is an effect of Chinese writing style, the style of this author, or just something for this particular book, but the way the story is told is sometimes very different from how European and US sci-fi is told. Several parts of the book made me think of adventure games on computers back in the nineties – a hero goes to a place, has a scripted interaction with someone and picks up clues, and then moves on to another place without the chance of asking any more questions. It's an interesting and sometimes refreshing style, and as long as you're open for new formats you'll probably have a good read.Note that this is the first part of a trilogy, and I haven't read all parts yet.
第27条评论: It is one of the most complex novels I've read in a long time. At so many levels this work tackles character development, deep science and philosophical/religious questions, all perfectly integrated in a fluid narrative. I enjoyed how the book portrays in a subtle way, but definitely integral to the development of the story, contemporary issues such as environmental degradation, the skepticism on science particularly by governments and historical chapters on China. All these will keep you thinking about humanity well after you finished the book.Definitely, a must read for everybody, although the hard-science speculation in some parts of the book may make the story not so enjoyable to people not used to science-fiction.
第28条评论: It's a little "harder" sci-fi than I typically like. Some of the stuff gets pretty weird and is a just a smidge above my scientific understanding, but I got through it. Learned some interesting stuff about 20th century China, too, which was unexpected. The Chinese names are a little tough for an American, but again, got through it.Excited to see where the sequel goes. I wish some of the stuff that happened at the end happened earlier in the novel so we could see what happens next.
第29条评论: An amazing book! After witnessing the death of her father, beaten to death by students in the days of the cultural revolution, an astrophysicist is sent to cut trees and then to a secret military base where she stumbles across evidence of extraterrestrial intelligence in the Tau Ceti system. Sure that only their influence could help change to human race, she sends Earths coordinates to the aliens, praying for their intervention. Years later, another scientist working on a special nano-material, gets caught in an international task force who is trying to solve mysterious murders of top scientists all over the world. Through an interactive game called the Three body problem, he learns of the aliens' existence and their struggle for survival on a planet governed by 3 suns whose unpredictable movements are slowly destroying the system. he is paired up with a rude, but brilliant police officer and together they uncover a whole organization of saboteurs, working against human race, preparing the way for the arrival of the Trisolarans. It is clear however that the aliens come to conquer.Beautifully written, scientifically plausible, the book has nonetheless a poetic perfume, the kind of mysterious sadness of an autumn sunset reminiscent of life's beauty and frailty and loss and pain. Looking forward to the sequel.
第30条评论: Story is a bit disjointed but keeps interest. I was in China not too long after Tiananmen, testify to what a huge screw up the great leap forward was to the educated elite and to the country was in general. (Beijing has no birds because all the trees were cut down and the wood used to smelt pot metal from everyone's aluminum and brass and iron implements so Mao's China would become a manufacturing competitor). Anyway the everyday news is so so dark, and this story doesn't do a whole lot to brighten it up, but where there is hope and tech, maybe we have a chance. At least we all pull together to try to make it happen in the three body problem. Nice scientific references to historical thinking about gravity and quantum realm.
第31条评论: I ended up enjoying this book, but the first 200 pages were a bit of a slog to get through. This is definitely a great example of ideas-over-all-else in literature. The Three-Body Problem is highly conceptual and can be quite dry. The last quarter of the book pulls everything together nicely and did leave me intrigued about the last two installments in the trilogy.Pros: interesting tidbits about the Chinese Cultural Revolution; thought-provoking ideas regarding humanity & physicsCons: 2D characters; cold tone; slow pacingRead The Three-Body Problem if you love conceptual fiction or hard science fiction. Don't read this book if you're looking for lots of action, complex characters, or strong emotion. There's pretty slow pacing in the first half. It speeds up in the third quarter, and zips along at page-turning speed for the last 100 pages.
第32条评论: I really enjoyed this book. It's not such hard science that the story suffers. It has an interesting trick of using the sun to massively amplify a signal that is later received by another civilization. It has some rather interesting ideas about how that civilization responds in a way that will disrupt our scientific advancement until they are able to arrive so that we can't defeat them. They live in a three star system and so their planet goes through Chaotic and Stable eras which aren't predictable (thus the 3-body problem), and eventually their world will be destroyed. Earth, orbiting in the sweet spot of one star seems like a paradise to them.I really like the way the book is rooted in Chinese history. It's full of footnotes about the cultural events it references. I feel as enriched by these parts as I do the speculative science.This book was translated to English by the author's brother, who is also a sci-fi writer. As an English reader, I can tell you that the translation is of the highest caliber.
第33条评论: Many of the one star reviews are correct about the plot holes, one dimensional characters and the uninspiring writing.  Perhaps something is lost in the translation or is due to cultural differences.I don't consider this by any measure a great book like some do.  I also don't think of it as hard sci-fi as it is labeled.  If you look at it that way its not awful.  The story depends on a lot of very unlikely events to take place which diminishes its appeal.However, I found it interesting and imaginative enough to read it all the way through and I plan to at least read book two.  The story seems highly fragmented at times which can make it hard to follow at times.  However, it all comes together towards the end making for an interesting ending.
第34条评论: I stumbled across this book while foraging for new word-prey for my kindle. Of course, if I start a book in a series, I basically am committing myself to reading all of them, regardless of how much I like them. Since this book is but a piece of the whole story spread across these three books, I honestly find it difficult to remember what exactly happens when. So, I must review it as a single story.The wonder and fascination that this story created for me took me back to those early days when I had just "discovered" Asimov, Clarke, etc. I've found it increasingly difficult to come across new books that aren't just about space battles with military groups gunning for whatever cause is at hand. This story is like walking down a boat ramp, you get submerged into this universe in a gradual/reasonable manner, and before you know it, you're thoroughly submerged in an incredible exploration of this "what if..."I must recommend partaking in this story.
第35条评论: Like a Chinese Neal Stephenson, Cixin Liu crafts a tale that spans decades and that goes off into deep tangents that wall readers through the (what I assume to be) real science behind the fictional concepts. The description of the game in the book is as addictive as playing a video game in real life in that you can’t wait to see how each new puzzle is solved.My only complaint is that the story itself, as long as it is, seems more like a prelude to the actual story which I’m assuming starts in the next book. The good news is that this book was compelling enough to definitely pick up that next one.
第36条评论: What a great novel and truly sci fi! The concept requires a base understanding of physics but it is original nonetheless. Bravo!
第37条评论: This is a good read and the book  is novel in three ways:- the three body problem talks about 3-star systems and the effects these could have on the ability of civilizations to thirve.  What a great description! It also reminds one of Will Durant's famous "Civilization exists by geological consent, subject to change without notice." and make us all thankful for our single star system!- a great interplay between reality and a simulation game- the philosophical extensions of it all.Be prepared to want to read books 2 and 3 of this trilogy :-)
第38条评论: I have read well over 2000 books and almost 1000 of them on kindle and including horror, this book ended up being the most terrifying.  So scary that I am not sure I will be able to read the other ones.  What makes it so scary is that it involves hidden dangers I never would have imagined and although it stretches what could be way too far, it makes it seem possible.
第39条评论: Loved this book.Normally only read non-fiction and this was my first sci-fi book ever. Very mentally intriguing and ponders questions about existences and reality in a format that makes you keep flipping to the next page.
第40条评论: I love how this novel evolves. He uses the cultural revolution to build a bond between the characters and the reader. He then uses metaphor to describe an alien culture. The novel is extremely well crafted. I like his knowledge of science. The novel  is very well written and superbly translated. The only reason I did not give it 5 stars is that it was just not quite "on" at the very end. It did not leave me totally amazed like some of the great SF novels of the past. It was just a little bit off. It was just a little too fast at the punch line, if you will. Having said that it is very much worth the read. It is one of the better SF novels I have read in the past few years and I will be reading the other two in the near future.
第41条评论: Of course, this is one of the greatest SiFi books ever. The book (and its sequels) have been awarded every possible award, prize, and tribute. Of course, all of these awards, prizes, and tributes are entirely deserved. It is well worth noting that the translation to English appears to be excellent. Since I am not fluent in Chinese, this is really just a guess on my part. However, the English version is excellent in its own right, implying a superb translation.A fascinating political note is the extremely negative portrayal of the Cultural Revolution in China. I have never read such a searing, hostile depiction of the madness of China in the 1960s. Frankly, I was not aware that such writing was possible in China. Conversely, the name "Mao" is notable by its absence from the book. Mao does appear, but only very infrequently and in a relatively neutral context. Apparently, some politically sensitive topics still exist in China.However, the bottom line is not political. This is one of the great SiFi novels of the last 100 years (or ever)
第42条评论: The Three-Body Problem is a fascinating if difficult read.  Physics, astrophysics, Chinese history, nanotechnology, and the search for intelligent life in other solar systems are just some of the areas included in the story.  The role of gaming technology is also a key component.At times, I thought I wasn’t smart enough to understand exactly what was going on, but I plowed on.  In the end, it was the interpersonal stories that resonated and my apparent amnesia about physics didn’t spoil the reading experience.
第43条评论: Enjoyable look From An Asian society's outlook On our current world And the possibilities Present In society.I liked it a lot
第44条评论: The ideas in this trilogy was just unbelievable. It is a must read, slow at first but picks up and never slows down.
第45条评论: I have no idea how this book earned such high reviews, nor why it won the awards it did.  The characters are two-dimensional at best, not well-developed, and there isn't a sympathetic character to be found.  All are either terribly flawed or just plan boring!  Some interesting ideas are presented, but the author's treatment is more like a narrative to an editor of what will be written.  This book has been compared to some of the best Sci Fi literature ever written, and it doesn't even begin to measure up in any way.  I can't believe it won the Hugo!!!  I won't be purchasing any of the subsequent books in this "series" based on this one.  I'll take Andy Weir's work any day!
第46条评论: Twenty words requirement is stupid and not worth the time of the average person. Just let me leave stars.
第47条评论: Im very glad to say that I was wrong.  I thought a story from a different language/culture would be boring or just wouldn't 'work'.  This was an incredible story!  For me, the climax was the science near the very end and it. Blew. My. Mind! I'm still reeling from.  Cixin Liu's story was incredible and I'm going the go get the other 2 right now. Many thanks to the author and my friend that recommended it!
第48条评论: This novel is a translation of an award winning Chinese sci-fi novel and the translation works really well. It postulates a complex interplay of earth-bound factions, aliens who's initial intentions are unclear, and a classic mathematical problem in the field of physics - the titular Three Body Problem. Fictional characters inhabit historical China starting with the Cultural Revolution. (Rare but useful, brief footnotes allow the American reader to connect story events to Chinese culture.) The people in this story are real, heroic, lamentable, despairing, and aggressive in turn. As the story unfolds they converge on an imminent encounter with an intelligent alien race who's quantum knowledge and technology beggars Earth's. Will humanity survive? If not, will they die because of the aliens or by their own hands as human factions, some bent on destroying humanity itself for its sins against nature, fight it out. I can't' t wait to start the sequel.
第49条评论: I guess it’s hard for me to review only this book, since I immediately devoured the next two in a trilogy that captivated me like nothing else in recent memory. Liu constructs a boldly original narrative that manages to be painfully intimate at times and breathtakingly epic at others. It has love, loss, betrayal, inrigue, explores broad-sweeping ideas about human philosophy, and (best of all, in my own bias) it is REALLY GOOD Sci-Fi. The Three Body Problem and subsequent sequels The Dark Forest and Death’s End were a delight from start to finish and have left me pondering the universe in strange new ways ever since.
第50条评论: This was my first book from this author. And I really love it; excellent read. If you are a Sci-Fi reader, I would definitely suggest this read. And thats all I can think of what I can write without giving away anything :-)And since this is a review, I guess I am supposed to talk about the other aspects too. Awesome shipping - I have prime and I chose the 2 day shipping but this came in just 1 day. For the price, I was thinking I will get one of those brownish very thin paper stuff with a printed on hard cover. But this was very nice quality paper and a great binding with a nice tough paper sleeve on it. It makes a very nice addition to my book collection - both in looks and whats inside.
第51条评论: This is a PHENOMENAL series. Some of the most interesting Sci Fi I've ever read. However, this first book of the trilogy was my least favorite. If you make it through this book, make sure read the other two. They are both fantastic.
第52条评论: It made me think, and being familiar with the three body problem I was interested in how Cixin would approach it.  A very interesting approach that is both entertaining and thought provoking.I am looking forward to reading the sequel.
第53条评论: Good book— interesting ideas. Enjoyed picture of Chinese culture that wasn’t Fu Manchu and the Vile Secrets of Western Imperialism.
第54条评论: This science fiction novel is on this year's Hugo ballot. I very much liked the different perspective created by the Chinese setting, which encompassed China during the Cultural Revolution as well as present-day China. I liked the originality of the ideas, some of which reminded me of Philip K. Dick, and I was particularly struck by two of these ideas: firstly, the countdown (details omitted to avoid spoilers), and, secondly, the idea of a computer created by the movements of thirty million soldiers. That said, I found the book rather dry and none of the characters moved me deeply.
第55条评论: Liu's novel transforms the mundane into the unfathomably vast. Through masterful character building and books inquiry, Liu brings readers into a world that is simultaneously familiar and unknown.
第56条评论: I hate trilogies. Especially since they take a one book story and drag it out. Also I hate bait and switch. Get the first book or two for free (Kindle Unlimited.) Then pay for the conclusion. Why then, did I give this book four stars. Because the background of the "three body problem" was very clever.
第57条评论: I liked and disliked the way the novel allowed my mind to escape the emotional world through rational thought only to lead it directly into the center of humanity's emotional grand central. I love to escape reality but I love to see reality from a different point of view.  I loved the bits of Chinese history told as a life experience without tinting it one way or another.  I loved how the characters evolved as political polices came and went.
第58条评论: Reminds me a bit of Enders Game because software reflects reality. The language is different and interesting. Will keep reading the series
第59条评论: Writing is mediocre, but ideas are very interesting. Let me say that I read all three parts of this series because of book 1, this very "Three Body Problem"
第60条评论: This book hits all the points that make scifi great: interesting and informative history, fantastic science and speculation, and most importantly examination of the human condition, including what makes people do good or evil and how people, how people are manipulated, and how to act in uncertainty. An excellent and compelling read.
第61条评论: An excellent and wholly fascinating story about aliens, virtual reality, and higher dimensions set in the near future. The tale grows more dire as the antagonist gets closer to the truth. Some really deep scientific concepts are expressed that should keep anyone who has a passing knowledge of quantum mechanics interested.
第62条评论: Surprisingly original concept and interesting storyline woven around recent Chinese history.  Hard to find books with new ideas like this .  Only disapointment is that this the first of a trilogy and the second book is not yet available.  I hope there is not too much delay between the volumes.
第63条评论: I enjoyed the first half of this book more than the second. I thought I had an idea of where it was going, and was excited to read more, but the resolution of the story turned out to be mundane than I was expecting.Also, I felt that towards the end, the author's descriptions of the principles behind some of the sci-fi elements forced me to suspend my disbelief more than would have been the case if he'd simply gone into less detail.Overall, though, an enjoyable read with interesting and creative sci-fi elements.
第64条评论: I've read the Chinese version of this book so I was curious what the English version would be like. To my surprise, it was as awesome as it was in Chinese!The story is so great! I was literally thrilled by the imagination and science details behind it.The second book of this series is even more awesome! Couldn't wait to read the English version!Finally congrats on winning the Hugo Award, 100% worth it, 100% worth reading!
第65条评论: There are so many original ideas crammed into this book that it could well be multiple volumes. The most unique aspect of the book is the presence of Physics within various elements of the plot. Science, and a growing understanding of that science on the part of the reader makes for an intellectually stimulating read along with the usual excitement from tension of the first encounter with an alien race.
第66条评论: Completely unengaging for me after only a few pages. It would be fine if you could return this book (Kindle version), but you can't, so.. negative review.
第67条评论: I tried really hard to like this book but it was just plain boring.  The characters and dialogue are extremely wooden, perhaps due to the translation from Chinese to English, and most of the characters were so thinly developed as to blend together.  I often mistook one character for another given how little they differentiated from one another and kept having to go back and find where they were last discussed to remember who they were.  The book had so much potential but pages and pages of dry text and pseudo science between brief superficial interactions between characters just made it extremely boring.  I did stick with it and finish the book but will not bother reading the following two installments.
第68条评论: I can't understand the high ratings for this.  As others have mentioned, these are flat characters with zero development; none of them generate a reason to care about what happens to them.  The motivations of many characters is also very dark and negative, which didn't interest me.  You are left all the speculative science, which can be a bit interesting, but I would say it's not written all that well and doesn't logically make sense if you look forward in the trilogy.I will say that the early part of the story concerning the Cultural Revolution grabbed me and kept me reading for awhile.
第69条评论: A lot of scifi is of the cookie cutter variety, with a cast of characters who speak with an identical voice, and many recycling not only concepts, but even sentence structures. They can be a dumb mishmash of every scifi trope imagined. We sometimes buy a book only to realize that we've basically read it before. Three Body Problem is a stark, refreshing contrast. I.e. other books are often rubbish, this is excellent, highly recommended.
第70条评论: I found this novel an interesting read,both from it's plot,and it'sCultural perspective.I will be readingMore from this author in the future.
第71条评论: Smart, compassionate, funny and deeply sad. Heavy on the astrophysics....but it IS science fiction. Excellent translation as well - maintains its feel as Chinese lit, while also lyrical in English.
第72条评论: Engaging, fascinating, scientific and interesting. Strong recommend.
第73条评论: Easily the best science fiction novel I've read in years. Full of plenty of topics to digest and reflect on. Interesting characters full of development. Fantastic and even believable science
第74条评论: The initial premise was appealing but the Trisolarans would have arrived at other solutions before resorting to the one written here
第75条评论: I loved the story and the idea behind it but had a little trouble with the writing style.  not sure if it was because of the translation or the author.  either way it wasn't enough to keep me from reading the book but didn't flow as well as I thought it could.  overall would still recommend the book
第76条评论: The concept is unique and really out of this world, but I found it hard going due to the long drawn out technical explanations. It was hard to warm to the characters. On balance I won't be reading the sequel.
第77条评论: Pervaded by a sad, and I believe erroneous, belief that all that matters and all that is true is limited to the narrow realm of the physical sciences.  An engaging read, but I couldn't help but feel sadness for the author throughout the experience.
第78条评论: Enjoyed how the story evolves
第79条评论: I am blessed to have read this stunning epic masterpiece and I am in awe of the mind that created this adventure. I will leave the detailed reviews to others who are more erudite than me.
第80条评论: Such a creative mind!  This book by Cixin Liu is refreshing for the Sci-Fi genre.  I loved the technical and scientific details throughout the story as well as the history!
第81条评论: The science is novel and scary. The writing style was simple, direct, and engaging which made it hard for me to put the book down. It was good to read a story that didn’t leave many loose-ends. Perhaps a tad bit too expositional and did not have enough character development. As an English-speaking American, I liked this introduction to a Chinese author and I liked the included translation notes. I’m looking forward to the next book in the series.
第82条评论: Although the ideas presented are intriguing, I really struggled with the scientific concepts presented. I don't know anything about regular physics much less astrophysics or even theoretical math. At one point I felt like crying because I really wanted to understand. This book will be best enjoyed by readers with strong knowledge of astrophysics and the history of China. I am looking forward to the Netflix series. I think it will be easier to understand in a film format. Even if I do miss out on the scientific basis, at least I won't feel so frustrated.
第83条评论: Science fiction with emphasis on science.  Very well written/translated. Like most scifi, this something of a high tech western with poetic observations.  Well done.
第84条评论: So, I got this book after reading that Benioff and Weiss have agreed to produce the TV series now that they are done with Game of Thrones. I also saw all of the 5 star ratings (including the endorsement from Obama) and those factors also pushed me to make the purchase. Overall I have to say I really enjoyed the book for several reasons. First off, it's the first novel I have read by a Chinese author, and that perspective was cool to experience. There are obviously cultural references to Chinese history made throughout the entire book, and I enjoyed learning about Chinese culture, especially the early days of the Cultural Revolution. Secondly, I am someone who is really into physics, science, and astronomy, and this book is not only full of those things, but in a very "real" way. If you are not into science or science history, this book may not be for you. Obviously the author goes off into some serious "suspension of disbelief" areas, but that is to be expected. But, his ideas about aliens, space travel, politics, physics, and science are just amazing and awe inspiring. The character development is kind of all over the place - some characters are developed in detail, others, hardly at all. Although, I will say, he does a lot of flashbacks, and in many cases the character development was there, just delayed or buried in later chapters. An important thing to recall is that this is a translation, and the in the translator's afterword, he is very clear about how difficult it is to translate Chinese, and Chinese cultural references, into something that Americans might understand. Overall, I really enjoyed this book, read it in 2 days. There are some choppy parts that I write off to the translation. It's a truly creative look into the "what ifs" of making alien contact, and I can't wait to read the next one!
第85条评论: Given that the original book was written in Chinese, I had no expectation that the English version would be an exceptional piece of literature. I was not surprised that the prose is dry and the dialog is stilted, nor did I expect to appreciate all of the cultural and historical allusions. What I don't understand is how a book that is flawed in so many other ways could be so highly rated.As others have said, The Three-Body Problem reads like a first draft - full of potential that is ruined by poor writing. In particular, I have two major complaints. First, there are numerous long passages of exposition that elaborate on the "science" behind this book, but it does not come across as credible nor does it feel relevant to the rest of the book. Second, the characterization is lacking. Few of the characters are fleshed out enough to fulfill their role in the story. The two main perspective characters are particularly shallow. Despite all of the time spent following their actions, it's difficult to imagine what drives them to act in the way they do; they seem to be pulled along by the necessities of the plot, which really undermines the immersion in the story.The book isn't all bad, though. In particular, the shifting perspectives allow for a slow, natural reveal of the various mysteries. The story plays with some interesting concepts as well. Though far from a page turner, there was enough here to get me through the book. However, I doubt I will bother continuing this series; there's so many better novels out there to read.
第86条评论: I feel so sorry for people who are reading this book and don't know enough to spot the massive, glaring problems throughout. There is some value here in that the book is written in part about the Maoist revolution in China, a period many in the West are wonderfully uninformed about. That part is mostly historical, and worth reading. The speculative fiction parts, however, are completely stupid.Yes, I said stupid. Just to give you a feel for why I'd be so strident, let's look at something more people will be familiar with. During the story, a character plays a mysterious video game. There's a throwaway line that the character must complete the game because if you unplug from the game, "your account will be deleted". This is so stupid it's jaw-dropping, and I realize a lot of people are going to gloss over this so let's parse through it a bit. 1) So what? You make a new account. A smarter author would therefore say that your account will be suspended meaning you can't keep playing, so let's be nice and assume it's a translation problem. 2) No game works this way, as for instance you could lose your internet connection due to a power outage. It's really bad design to delete the player's account, so this would never be a standard practice as described in the book. 3) The author was just trying to invent a technical-sounding reason for why the character keeps playing this game. How about instead of inventing silly technical mumbo-jumbo, the author could just say the character is really liking the game and wants to see how it ends? It's just forehead-slapping stupidity, not inventive fantasy fiction.The entirety of the main plot thread is also forehead-slapping stupid, but I'd have to get into some spoilers to break that one down. So let me conclude the non-spoiler section by saying this is an interesting book in terms of being written by a Chinese author who uses the backdrop of the Maoist revolution in an interesting manner. If you're up for a light romp with technology and aliens and Maoists, consider this book.SPOILERS BEGIN.The main thread of the plot is a mystery where scientists are looking at experiments from different particle accelerators, and discovering different accelerators give different answers. This leads to a conclusion that the laws of physics are different in different places, which shoots a hole in fundamental theories. Physics is supposed to be the same no matter where you conduct the experiment. Because of this... wait for it... scientists are committing suicide. This is the moment when you hear a loud sigh escaping from anyone who's ever actually done science. This is such a tired trope, claiming that scientists are just religious zealots about their own weird gods in the form of particles - and yes the book explicitly calls scientists religious zealots who can't stand to see their god blasphemed. In the real world, look at all the news reports coming out of the Large Hadron Collider. Everyone has heard about the Higgs Boson or "god particle" and how this finally put the final nail in the coffin of many rival theories. Did anyone commit suicide? Was there a conspiracy to cover up the evidence? Maybe there were a couple of nutcases somewhere out there in the world, but generally this did not happen. If particle accelerators were really giving weird new results, scientists would rejoice! The worst day for a scientist is when their result turns out to be boring and expected. It's a lot harder to get funding when your results are just verifying existing theories. If all the accelerators were giving different results, there would be years of work to do first verifying nothing went wrong, then decades of work to see if an underlying cause could be determined. That's a lot of job security! It wouldn't drive anyone at all to suicide.END SPOILERS.A book with a neat premise, that's completely stupid at a fundamental level. Only read it if your brain is going to be firmly in fiction mode where you don't stop to think about the actual real-world physics of anything going on, or else you're going to have a bad headache in short order.
第87条评论: The Three Body ProblembyCixin LiuThe Three Body Problem is a hard science fiction novel by Chinese author Cixin Liu or Liu Cixin, I have seen it written both ways and I am not familiar with the Chinese protocol for names. It was the winner of the 2015 Hugo Award and was nominated for the 2014 Nebula Award, so it had to be good – right? Well, maybe at one time, but as of late it seems as if the awards - all awards - have become politicized and not necessarily the best entry is chosen. But that is a discussion for another time. At the very least, I thought The Three Body Problem deserved at least a chance to prove itself. While I do not think the novel was worthy of an award, I did find it had some merit and well worth the read.The story takes place in China, and the beginning deals with the cultural revolution of the 1960’s. I must admit that I know very little of China’s history, or what life is like in China at all, and I found the history lesson fascinating. I could not see the relevance of these seemingly disjointed segments, but by the time the novel ended everything fell into place. In fact, the main plot line did not become evident until shortly after the halfway point of the novel. But after the slow start, things picked up fairly nicely and became more interesting to me.The characters, with the exception of the astrophysicist Ye Wenjie and the police detective Shi Qiang, were flat and one-dimensional. The dialog seemed clipped and at times forced, but I am giving the author the benefit of the doubt due to translation restraints. I can sympathize with Ye Wenjie but cannot justify her betrayal. I feel her logic was flawed by equating a stronger civilization with a superior one. I did like the character of Shi Qiang. He was abrasive and somewhat uncouth, but he was very smart among all the scientists and felt real to me.All things considered, I give this read 4 stars. As someone with a math and science background, I enjoyed the reading the hard science. I can see where it may not appeal to all readers, but I think there are enough other items that will appeal to lovers of the genre. The premise was believable and it was interesting to speculate how humanity would react to another civilization and how the people separated into different camps. I always thought humans would line up to protect their world, but I can see how some people may have become disillusioned with our society. I do not feel this work is worthy of receiving an award, but it still has something to offer sci-fi fans.
第88条评论: The Three Body Problem is a book full of colorful imagination, exploratory science, and engaging story beats. Having picked it up and finished in a week, the parts that struck home the most were the great care and detail put into making the science not only understandable, but plausible. I would recommend this book to fans of Children of Time by Adrian Tchaikovsky, or other fantastically grounded sci fi epics.
第89条评论: The other month ago I read an article in Wired magazine about the Hugo Awards (a pretty big deal in the world of science fiction). More specifically the article was about the lack of women and people of color who are nominated for and receive a Hugo Award. This isn’t because women and people of coloring write sub-par science fiction but because certain groups try and rig the voting to keep a certain type of science fiction author at the top of the list. (And yes, this “certain group” and “certain type of author” are white straight men.)Thanks to this article I was pointed towards some Hugo Award winning science fiction by a diversity of authors. After reading some synopses and reviews online, I bought The Three-Body Problem by Cixin Liu, a book that won the Hugo Award in 2015 after two other authors, both white, withdrew as they realized they were being pushed to the top simply to keep diverse authors down. (Seriously, someone should make a movie about that.)To be honest, I was a little nervous about starting this book. Not because it’s science fiction (major geek over here) but because I didn’t know if I would be able to keep up with the context of the Chinese Revolution or keep track of so many names that I am so unfamiliar with. However, all of my fears were satiated once I began reading the book. Yes, the book revolves around the Chinese Revolution and yes it is filled with Chinese names. But the footnotes along the way did an excellent job of explaining the context (and teaching me many new things) and the names were much easier to remember and keep track of than I thought, probably easier than if they had been names I am overly familiar with.As I came to the final chapters of the book, I found myself utterly satisfied with the story, only sad that I had so few pages remaining. The book lands well, leaving you satisfied upon completion, but I was curious to know more about the larger meta-narrative and the always looming “what happens next?”After a quick google search I discovered that The Three-Body Problem is the first in a trilogy. And the English translation of the third book would be out this August! I bought the sequel, The Dark Forest, and will be reading the finale, Death’s End, once it is released.All this to say, go read The Three-Body Problem. It will remind you why science fiction is an amazing genre and introduce you to a diversity of amazing scifi authors in the world.And if that’s not enough to convince you, President Obama took a copy of this book with him over the holidays!//Oh, and I love this book so much that I gave it a shout out in my latest sermon at Middle Church (as well as comparing the book of Revelation to science fiction). Enjoy! https://youtu.be/n_TPhxJonuA
第90条评论: Really turned the rational into irrational, through a mystery. Looking forward to its sequel. I kept turning the pages, wanting to know what came next.
第91条评论: If you have no experience with Chinese Lit this book might be a weird shift, but stick with it. It really made me think and I went back to it several times. I will admit I skimmed some of the more dense physics explanations (because I haaaaaate physics) but I didn't have any issue understanding what was going on. I found this book because of Adam Savage and Tested and I've already recommended it to several friends. I don't know if I'll read the sequel, since I kind of like how this one ended.
第92条评论: It’s slow to start! You might start reading it and think ‘how is this a sci fi book?’, like I did! But keep going and eventually it will hook you!! By the end, I just had to get the second book right away! I’m about half way through the second book now and it’s action packed from the start! So just get through the slow start and you won’t regret it!!
第93条评论: [No spoilers] This is a review of the entire Three-body Trilogy, "The Three Body Problem", "The Dark Forest" and "Death's End".If you thought you'd read all the best sci-fi ever, add this one to your list. After you've read Asimov's Foundation series, and every Iain Banks Culture novel, what else is going to impress? I'm glad to add this trilogy to that mental list of the best of the best. Epic, but with continuity of characters, human, but also social, with a wonderful writing style (even as a translation) to boot.Just wonderful.
第94条评论: Seriously, this trilogy blows over 99% of science fiction novels out of the water. The concepts are just wild. The writing is great and tight - I don't know how much of this is the translation vs. the original Chinese, but there is very little nonessential verbiage, which given the massive size of the trilogy indicates how dense it is with new and strange concepts. The author also captures human behavior very well, on both individual and societal levels (spoiler: people rarely behave rationally!). I rarely re-read books, but I will definitely re-read these in the future.
第95条评论: Good book, but I think it is a little overrated. My major complain is that there are actually several books inside the Three Body Problem. There's the political plot and China's cultural revolution right at the start which is great. There's a slow paced hard sci-fi story in the first half that kept me hooked to the book. But then there's the second half were science is blown by the wind and it becomes a convoluted story filled with completely unconvincing more fit to a YA novel (if you think of it as sci-fi) or to those fantastical Chinese martial arts movies where people can float while fighting (if you think of it as an allegory). It's a shame, because the first part was very promising. While I intend to read other books from Cixin Liu in the future, I don't think I'll finish this trilogy. 3 stars because of the solid first half.
第96条评论: Had the trilogy strongly recommended to me by several friends and acquaintances with extremely high praise. Although the novel was far from revolutionary, the China centric setting was refreshing, executed well, and provided an excellent alternative lens for a science fiction novel. Apart from feeling that some of the characters were rather shallow and some arcs feeling rushed, I thoroughly enjoyed the book and highly recommend it.
第97条评论: Simply because the author is Chinese, this sci fi tale already has a distinct tone.But he does so much more that's interesting, both in evolving or current science and blending history.I wish we could have spent more time with certain charters - the novel is broad and as a result not as deep of a charter study as I'd like.
第98条评论: I had heard only good things about the Three Body Problem, so I was patient with this novel at first.  However, after making it through the first hundred pages of awkward, childish writing ("...Bai blurted out, 'I can tell how you're feeling. The two of us are the only ones who feel this way."), I started to wonder whether I had picked a poor translation.Maybe I had, but after a further fifty pages, it was pretty clear that translation alone couldn't explain the endless monologues or the numerous passages describing truly irrelevant matters; for example, Chapter 8 contains a full page transcription of an elderly woman's conversation with some random neighborhood toddlers, none of whom appear again.  Neither can the translation be blamed for the paper-thin characters and their unrealistic motivations & reactions.  I ultimately decided to put this book down about 2/3 of the way through - I could not bear to continue.If you're interested in a much more enjoyable and artful exploration of the possible ramifications of first contact between humanity and alien civilizations, I'd recommend "The Day Lasts More than a Hundred Years" by Chingiz Aitmatov.  It's closer to Soviet Realism than sci-fi, but it's a truly fine book.
第99条评论: This was a book that kept sneaking up on me in different ways.  The writing (translation) was what got me started and carried me through some parts where I wasn't quite sure where it all was going.  Like the best science fiction, it had characters and themes that were not only believable but very recognizable in our experience today.  The gradual reveal of the final direction was fascinating as was the human traits that drove each action.  It took me a while to digest the ending, but after a week I think it was just as it should be in that it kept me thinking almost obsessively about what it really meant.
第100条评论: It's hard to describe this book without ruining the fun for future readers except to say, if you enjoy (and acknowledge) the fact that good science fiction begins with good science, then you will love this book.It calls into question so much of what we take "for granted" about our solar system's existence as well as asking the sorts of difficult questions that great literature should poke at. Who are we? How did we get here? Do we DESERVE to be here? And what if.... ?Well, IF you pass on this book, then you've missed out.
第101条评论: A friend recommended this book to me and I was excited, so I bought a Chinese version for myself and an English for my husband. Neither of us could finish it. My impression for the first 20 pages or so: elementary school kids writing style, but has a few interesting ideas. So I kept reading it. As soon as I got to the video game parts, I just had to skip pages( really? You wanna explain to me how someone plays a video game in like 10-20 pages)? Eventually I gave up. I have never read a book in my entire life that is so poorly written and poorly structured. There are no characters and no common sense. It does however have excessive flat dialogues! Wow.  The Chinese cultural revolution background is just so awkward and I don’t see the point (maybe It serves a function later on in the book but I just could not keep reading it).To whoever bought the English version and thinks the awfulness might be due to translation: the original version is equally bad, maybe even worse.
第102条评论: There is a reason it was up for a Hugo award.  Great book.  Excellent Hard Science (minor quibbles, but I don't want that to get in the way of a great story).Pros:  Excellent science, engaging, good pacing for everything that is covered.Cons:  Not sure I have any ...I love that it is written by a non-westerner.  The different perspective is amazing.I could write in more detail on the plot, but I don't want to give more away that is in the flap. :-)
第103条评论: This is an excellent novel. It is exciting but also very complex and thoughtful. The only reason I give it four out of five stars is that, at the very end of the book, the science fiction went too far in the direction of fiction (in my opinion), which didn't quite fit with the rest of the book. However, this did bring the story line forward. I highly recommend this book.
第104条评论: It has some clever scientific premises.  The characters are rather two dimensional.  The ending is very abrupt, and leaves unanswered questions for the sequel.  Who has time for that?  Life's too short.
第105条评论: Start with clunky characterizations, ridiculous science and physics, and a whole armamentarium of hackneyed plot devices. Mix in some genuinely novel ideas (such as the human-powered computer), season liberally with Chinese cultural and political references, and this is what you get: a diverting and thought-provoking read, but not one that IMHO deserves the floods of acclaim it's gotten. If this book had been written by someone named Jones or Smith, it would lack the cultural seasoning that makes it interesting-- and its many flaws would sink it. I slogged my way through it, hoping at each page turn that I'd have an "aha!" moment. Maybe the second book will provide it.
第106条评论: I found this story absolutely fascinating and can't wait to start the next book in the trilogy. The story based in China and written by a Chinese author/scientist provides a whole new take on sci-fi for those used to western writers. The use of foundational physics and astronomy to demonstrate the likely impossible task of solving the three body problem is especially interesting told using an extraterrestrial storyline. So fortunate this story was translated into English!
第107条评论: I have mixed feelings about this first book of a trilogy.  I will probably not read the two other books.I enjoyed the huge scope of imagination and also the inclusion of Chinese historical and cultural settings.  The author clearly has a continuing interest in the latest scientific developments.But there is a huge amount of technical “name dropping” without any real substance behind it and an inconsistency in the application of scientific concepts.  I was reminded of the “space operas” of the 1940’s which did the same.  (Yes, I’m that old…) I felt that character development was very thin and that there was a generally infantile air about the whole thing.  Some of that perhaps comes from the translator, but, except for the mention of current scientific developments, I kept feeling that I was reading a newly rediscovered book from the days of early science-fiction.
第108条评论: Overall, I enjoyed the book. It was slow going at first, and as others have noted the character development ranges from minimal to nil - but the concept of the story is fascinating in many dimensions and by the time I was finished I was hooked and immediately bought the next book in the trilogy. The way Chinese culture interacts with/underpins the scientific and philosophical elements of the story is pretty interesting too.
第109条评论: All too often, SFF is dominated by interesting concepts from authors who lack the literary 'wordsmithing' ability to really make them shine. That's definitely not a problem here, as Cixin Liu and translator Ken Liu open a stunningly crafted hard sci-fi trilogy with a distinct prose-like eastern flavour to it, refreshingly different from anything I've come across in the genre before. If you've enjoyed anything by Haruki Murakami, Kim Stanley Robinson, China Mieville or Paolo Bacigalupi, then stop reading the reviews and get this book already. You won't regret it.
第110条评论: Super engaging tale of sci fi and technology and the dangers of myopic group think. The underlying mystery kept me turning the pages until the truth was revealed. Hopefully the sequels resolve the set up.
第111条评论: This book is awesome if you're not a novel type and likes to read wide this is the book for you......takes your imagination to another level.
第112条评论: Barrack Obama found this series intruiging and gave it praise... take his word over the random nay-sayers giving 1-star reviews. This is a great series.
第113条评论: First Chinese Sci-Fi that I've read, and it was pretty good.  Interesting to read a novel set during the Cultural Revolution.  A bit more fantasy than Sci-Fi.  But the resolution of the plot relies on a bit of "and then something magical happened and all was well".
第114条评论: This is a great syfy with a sufficiently complicated idea to keep me interested but not completely confuse me. It gets a bit hokey at the end, so I doubt I will read the others.
第115条评论: I don't remember how this story was narrated.  There were so many things in this book that seemed so ridiculous, like creating a computer with an army.  There was some surprises and the plot seems to be pretty good but I can't get over certain aspects of the story.  Being a software engineer, there were some wtf moments but I don't thing everyone will feel the same.  Overall it was interesting and if you're into sci-fi you might like it.
第116条评论: For my daughter. She read it in a couple of days (not bad) and said it was pretty good. I asked her if she wanted the sequel and she said thank you. So I gave 4 star review
第117条评论: Absolutely loved it! This is for all 3 books. Great story and wild imagination! Not for everyone though. Some scientific explanation given by the author requires some knowledge in physics and engineeing... It's definitely hard science for science fiction lovers.
第118条评论: The Three-Body Problem gets a generous three stars from me, and while that's no disaster as on Trisolaris it is a refection on the novel's one-dimensional characters, wooden exposition, stilted dialogue and pat politics. On the other hand, the plot is engaging and the writing masterful in spots -- until it's time for more hurried plot advancement or some cartoonish ideological representations once again. Perhaps something was lost in translation, or maybe it's an indication that it's hard to write sci-fi with a compelling three-dimensional political perspective in China today. I won't be continuing with this trilogy, regretfully.
第119条评论: This book is excellent. It was wonderful reading a science fiction novel from a different culture. I enjoyed how the story was multi-generational and unpredictable. The characters were interesting and multi-dimensional. I would recommend this to anyone who loves sci-fi with lots of scientific knowledge. There wasn't any gapping holes and overall it was an incredibly enjoyable read. The ending left me feeling different from other sci-fi books I have read; hopeful and sad. So good! I can't wait to have my whole family read it so we can talk about it.
第120条评论: A good book, but I didn't get along with it all that well. I didn't particularly like the main character, and the emptiness of every human relationship was startling
第121条评论: This is an incredible book.  It weaves an intricate believable story true to science, yet pushes the reader into new areas of thought.  It is bound to be a classic.But more than that, as a Westerner, it expanded my understanding of a different culture and gave me hope for the future, due to our common humanity.I can not recomend this enough.
第122条评论: Love it, just bought the 2nd one and pre-ordered the third. If you don't like physics then I'm afraid it may be difficult for you to get through some of it. If you're like me and you love physics and the like, you will enjoy it immensely.
第123条评论: Very interesting and intriguing cultural and scientific concepts/realities presented in this story.I find the idea of just knowing, for sure, that another relatively  intelligent life form exists mind boggling.
第124条评论: A wonderful work of science fiction, fusing constantly inventive scientific imagination with strong writing. For readers outside China the exotic Chinese setting reinforces both the strangeness of the alternative reality, and the universal messages of the book. This is both a gripping story and a meditation on humanity's future.
第125条评论: The Three Body Problem is a very creative science fiction . It has some strange context and ideas but seems plausible. The trickiest thing is that there are some Chinese cultural anomalies that make it a little odd. But not unpleasantly so. Great work Mr. Liu! Or is it Mr. Cixin?
第126条评论: With the history of life on earth a litany of war and violence the inviting of other worlds is a dicey move for sure! Very thoughtful challenging presentation!
第127条评论: A fun read with new sci-fi concepts to make your brain work.  Very heavy on the science aspect with a decent secondary emphasis upon the literary. If you need a refreshing and different sci-fi read then give Three Body Problem a chance.
第128条评论: A great read, really liked the section in the Cultural Revolution.  Great read, glad a friend turned me on to it.
第129条评论: Superb book dealing with the possibility that we are not alone in the universe in a creative but scientific way. No deus ex machine here, only the human brain in its infinite possibilities to show an interesting way to conceive of the alien other. Great read.
第130条评论: Brilliant idea but parts of this story were hard to get through. It took till the last 40 pages for it all to come together and his style took a while to get used to. Luckily he turned it around because the next 2 books were worth the slog that this one was
第131条评论: A very promising start to the trilogy. I think I' will start book 2 immediately. The science is a little challenging to follow but that's how I like my SF
第132条评论: I don't think this is a terrible book. And it is a book in translation, and a book from a different culture and literary tradition, so it is hard to assign "blame" if such things even make sense. Any "fault" is quite likely in this reader, who is incapable of appreciating this book as it was intended to be appreciated.But I found this book dull. I found the science and the world created uninteresting and unsurprising. I found the characters uninvolving. It never "gripped" me - I read it, it's done, I have zero desire to read the next ones, I kinda wish I had spent my time (and money) elsewhere.
第133条评论: I didn’t find this book to be one that I wanted to continue to read, it was with great effort I managed to finish it, and I’m not satisfied, unfortunately. I have to say it’s just not my cup of tea. The characters seemed to meld into one another and talked with the same voice, and the story had no discernible plot, nor did I find any character’s motivation compelling. I wanted to like this but it was a real slog. I won’t be reading the others.
第134条评论: I moved to China recently and someone I met here asked a simple question of "Do you like science fiction?" They recommended this book and I have to say. It's a great read. Now onto book 2.
第135条评论: I have read this trilogy for 2 times in Chinese. Yesterday I went to watch Interstellar of Christopher Nolan, and there were so many ideas that also appeared in Liu Cixin's book. Great minds think alike!But my worry is, one day when the last book of this trilogy is published in English, I am very sure that many readers would complain, hey, you copied Interstellar!
第136条评论: Interesting reading about China and the cultural revolution. Liked the sort of odd approach to alien contact. I would recommend this book. Planning to get the second installment.
第137条评论: Awesome trilogy - hard sci fi - provides a different/plausible/darker perspective on space exploration - compelling read all the way through
第138条评论: Very interesting concept
第139条评论: The writing was engaging and the plot was tight, so it kept me hooked and just wanted to keep chasing the story. I also thougt there was a deeper meaning behind the story and that it was in a way a wake up call to humanity! Really enjoyed it and am reading the sequel, The Dark Forest.
第140条评论: I foolishly bought the trilogy all at once, so I was determined to read it all.  Among the myriad of thoughts that crossed my mind whilst reading were;  "How did this win any awards?", "Who in their right mind would think this deserved any awards?", "What are they smoking over at Netflix?".Seriously though, it's a very boring trilogy.  Mcguffin after mcguffin equals lazy writing in my opinion.
第141条评论: A unique and profound work of science fiction.  I have already purchased the second volume in the trilogy. As a baby boomer raised on Asimov and Star Trek, I recommend the Three-Body Problem enthusiastically.
第142条评论: I thought the movie was amazing.  The movie was loosely based upon one short story in the book.  I didn't think any of them were that great.  Not bad, but not great.
第143条评论: It was not ground breaking or even thought provoking.  I only finished it because I'm OCD.  I saw that Amazon puts this into hard science fiction, but I think it is more appropriately silly fantasy with some quantum theory the author looked up on Wikipedia.The writing style is also very uninspired, but I can't tell if it's an author problem or a translator problem.  I understand this is a trilogy, but there are too many good books out there to read,  Best of luck.
第144条评论: An interesting entry to the 'meeting engagement' scenario theme framed in the context of the Cultural Revolution and its legacy.  Looking forward to the next 2 volumes.
第145条评论: Fascinating book written from a radically different (to me) Chinese viewpoint. My only complaint is that some of the alien technologies seem more supernatural than science-based, which has kept me from reading the follow-up books so far.
第146条评论: While I don't regret reading this, it didn't meet expectations for a Hugo winner. My biggest problem was a lack of characterization - I didn't care about any of the characters because I didn't know them. What intrigues me looking back is the bleak view of human nature and the uncommon  perspective on first contact.
第147条评论: The best science fiction I've read in a very long time. Destined to become a classic.
第148条评论: Not for the lazy reader the Three-Body problems is highly engaging and requires you think about the physics that make the story both real and fascinating.  This book occupied my mind even when I was not reading it. Highly recommended.
第149条评论: Really interesting read. I don't normally read novels, but I read this one with my wife and it was really enjoyable. It got more interesting as the book progressed, but I have not yet read the next books in the series.
第150条评论: It not a bad book if you haven't heard about the cultural revolution and don't know much about science. There are a few novel plot devices that made reading the book enjoyable.
第151条评论: First, I must say, this is a great translation. Ken Liu does a great job of maintaining the integrity of this novel while changing the language. Even while reading it you feel as though you are reading something foreign, which in this case is a very good thing. I am a little upset that Ken Liu isn't translating the next two in the series, but I am sure that Joel Martinsen, given his credentials, will do a great job as well."The Three-Body Problem" by Cixin Liu is a fantastic start to what I hope is a great science fiction saga. It does not try to fool you into thinking it is a complete novel, as it clearly states it is the first of a trilogy. It also spends it's time setting up the story so that you really get to know the characters and problems that the world is having. Very few 'questions' go unanswered, which helps gives the reader some feelings of accomplishment when finishing it, but the overall story is just beginning and Liu leaves us wanting to see what happens next.The major characters in this story are really well developed. They all have human qualities that make them easy to relate to while also making it hard for the reader to decide who exactly is in the wrong. One of the best things about this novel is that it doesn't just have technology as it's scientific element, but that it also delves into social science, which is something I think is overlooked in this generation of authors. A lot of questions about humanity and it's overall value come up. Liu maintains his Chinese roots, giving the reader a valuable insight into another culture. I hope this is something Liu continues to do in the following books.The reason I gave this novel 4 stars and not 5 is because it sometimes gets bogged down with scientific jargon that has no relevancy to the story. It has a lot of really cool ideas and concepts, but it could have explained them in a much simpler manner. Overall this is a great novel that well deserves it's current Hugo nomination. I hope to see more science fiction coming out of China over the years and I really hope readers catch on to the types of thing authors like Cixin Liu are trying to do.
第152条评论: The first book of the series did two things. It gave an interesting slant on "the silence of the stars"  - Fermi's observation that given the size of the universe and the number of stars and planets, there should be a lot of "intelligent" civilizations out there. Why haven't we heard from them? Liu's answer is interesting, but I don't think it could be correct if you think about it.Where the book really scores is in its picture of life in China during and after Mao's great cultural revolution. A lot of it is told through the eyes of a young woman who watched her elderly father beaten to death by teenagers because he taught the ideologically impure Einsteinian theory of relativity. The scar this left almost ended human life on this planet. And a generation later, we see the state, the police and the people working at least somewhat harmoniously together.  The book shows a China that is much more nimble and accepting of change than one might think.The second two books of the series got really bogged down in plot and I found them difficult to read.
第153条评论: First, please note that this book is really just part 1 of a longer story.  Its cost is a third of what you will spend to find out what the finale holds.  I think I'll wait for the price to drop.The Three Body Problem is a Science Fi Who-done-it thriller in which the reader first follows an inexplicable mystery--who or what is causing many valuable scientists to commit suicide.  A malevolent alien species has focused on Earth as its McGuffin and needs our science to stop if they hope to exterminate us.  Before the book's end, the mystery collapses when an explicit download of enemy plans falls into the Earthling's hands, and the aliens show us how bad and all-powerful they are.The story is interesting from the angle that all the important characters are Chinese, and the driving issue that causes the major human antagonist to make a fateful decision is Mao's Cultural Revolution.  The destructive, brutalizing, and vitiating horror of this event in China's history is well fleshed out in the novel and is the cause of her becoming a traitor to humanity.  The advancement of China itself since that time is shown by the the novel's and author's fame there rather than suppression.  My feeling is that the author also used China's incomparable history as a template for the alien enemy he created--a race forever beset with periods of chaos that punctuate the rise of their civilization and often force them to start it all over.  Thus it is a race inured to draconian existence and authoritarian ascendancy.  It is a good story to get the Chinese view of life, which appears not all that different from the West, but certainly unique in many details.Except for the main antagonist, character development is not great.  The other Chinese characters are interesting people but change little.  The few Western characters are wooden and even the main Western antagonist is given a bit part and then disposed.  My eyes are now opened to how Western Science Fi writers do this with Chinese characters.  Some, such as Pournelle and Niven even pattern their alien baddies after Asians--"The Mote in God's Eye."This is hard Sci-Fi--no FTL and has no plot facilitators to get characters where the action is before lunch.  The author shows that he has read and digested most of the popular non-fiction books out there on Cosmology, QM, and high energy physics.  Mostly it helps make the story real, but to a knowledgable eye the flum-tech put in to move the plot forward is awkward at times.  I suspect that to the layman, the slough through pages of flum-tech to create a new indefatigable weapon just gets mystifying and boring.  Compare Liu's many pages of specification for making a 'Sophon' with the simplicity of a Transporter, which merely scrambles one's molecules and then reassembles Kirk down where he can get it on.  By the way, the sophon, as described seems so all-powerful that I must wonder why the aliens can't just use their tech to put their own planet right by nudging it all the time into stable eras, rather than attacking us.  There is definitely a difficulty inherent in creating too much power by messing with all eleven dimensions and tying a Gordian knot with string theory.
第154条评论: A pleasure to read.  Imaginative and creative.  Has depth in the development of the settings and characters.
第155条评论: If you like “hard” science fiction you’ll love this. At times I thought a degree in theoretical physics would helpful to understand some of the science needed for the story. I found the scientific explanations both difficult and rewarding. I found many parts of the story to be disturbing and very thought provoking. I recommend keeping an abundant source of hope nearby when reading this book lest you despair. It caused me to have a lot of thoughts I didn’t like, but needed to consider.
第156条评论: What would happen if China were to have received an alien communication during the tumultuous times of the Cultural Revolution? Political espionage, murder, intrigue, and a strange computer game that’s a little more than it seems. The aliens are on their way, and the actions of a few key characters could either reign down destruction on the human race or save Earth from the coming storm.In the interim, scientists around the world are committing suicide. Wang Miao, a nanotechnology researcher, begins to see a countdown materialize first on developed film, then on his own retinas! What does any of this mean? You'll have to wait 'till the end for the big reveal.Impressions:This book is different from anything I’ve ever read. First, it’s helpful to know that the author, before turning to writing, was an engineer at a power plant in China. That background is obvious in the themes of the book. Physics, engineering, and computer science are key aspects of the novel, but all are presented in a way that a novice in those subjects, like me, could understand. If you like any of subjects, you’ll be enthralled.Secondly, keep in mind that this was written by a Chinese author. As such, the writing is likely to be very different from anything you’ve encountered before if you’ve never read other Asian works, as was the case with me. The dialogue felt very strange at first, akin to what you might encounter in anime. The way the story is conveyed can seem strange, due to minute differences in the writing style between cultures. And, even though the translation is great, there are likely subtle shifts in meaning and style that are present. That’s not to say the writing isn’t good; it just takes some getting used to. The translator addresses this directly in a postscript, saying that literary styles are different between Chinese and English-speaking cultures. At times, he tried to smooth over the differences, but other times he left those differences so as not to subtract from the story or meaning.The novel also initially takes some dedication. The first half of the novel moves somewhat slowly and can be a bit confusing. There were aspects, like the computer program that plays a key role in the beginning, that I wish he’d have explained more. But once you’ve finished the first 200 page hurtle, things start to make sense, and the sinister plot begins to unravel. I’m generally not a fan of science fiction novels, but this one really captivated me.
第157条评论: The best science fiction book I have ever read and my first by the author. It won't be the last
第158条评论: I loved this book!  The first couple of chapters didn't grab me and pull me in, there was much history of China being explained.  However, am I glad I stuck with it.  As I turned each page I was drawn deeper and deeper into this world.  I was pleasantly surprised that the book focused on some science facts to tell the story.  The combination of fact and fiction made this an incredible adventure.  The Author has made it so that you are fully pulled into the story and can visualize the reality of our world changing am becoming the reality of the the world between the pages! Not an easy feat!  kudos to the author.  Other than a slow beginning, this book has little in cons and falls completely on the pro side for reading.I highly recommend this book.  Those who might enjoy it the most would have some familiarity with current theories with physics/quantum Physics.  However, such knowledge is not necessary to enjoy the book.  The Author did an amazing job of providing metaphors, analogies, and easy to visualize demonstrations of certain principles through the dialogue amongst characters, it is easy to follow.  But there is so much more to this book, philosophic ideas are dispersed throughout the book.  Psychological and sociological ideas are mingled in as well.  So who might enjoy this book the most?  Anyone!  This is one of those rare books that if 10 people read the book then discussed what fascinated them the most, well, you would get 10 different answers and question if they all even read the same book.  This book is most certainly science fiction, excellent science fiction.  So if your a SciFi geek, check this book out!  You won't regret it!I gave this book a 5 star rating for the fact that this novel will appeal to a multitude of SciFi fans on many different levels.  The author has created a world that is rich with detail, easy to visualize.  With such great detail, it is easy to get swept up into the story and believe it is possible, too feel like this could be happening in present times.  A novel which can not only completely suspend disbelief but go beyond by making you "feel" the events are really happening at this very moment deserves 5 star rating.Give this book a try, you will not be disappointed!
第159条评论: I loved this trilogy. It is brilliant, and unprecedented at many levels.  It introduces many new concepts, including one that has already become mainstream, the “Dark Forest” explanation for the Fermi Paradox. My first Chinese sci-fi from “... the most prolific and popular science fiction writer in the People's Republic of China.”And boy is it different. American sci-fi brought you Star Trek, The Martian Chronicles, 2001 and a slew of other stories across a spectrum of mostly upbeat themes sprinkled with a few dystopian ones. But nowhere did I encounter anything like this: a stepped-through and exceedingly logical explanation of why everyone and everything that is not of your kind is potentially deadly, and why it’s best to assume the worst from them. Wow. This “takeaway” gave me the chills. It didn’t help that the only American character portrayed to any depth in the trilogy (Ward) was a cold hearted killer. I couldn’t help but wonder if the millions of Chinese readers all thought “Sure, that all makes sense. Better launch a photoid soon” (read the book to understand).The literary tool of jumping ahead centuries while flashing back as needed is masterfully handled. He successfully communicates an Eastern long term perspective to his themes.  He does that by showing how unintended consequences are the rule and not the exception, and that true understanding takes time. No quick answers. It reminded me of the famous answer Mao gave when asked what he thought of the French Revolution: “Its too early to tell”.I read all three back to back and was impressed with his deliberate and unconventional writing style. The pace and venue jump around in a remarkably refreshing way. It’s one of the very best sci-if series I’ve ever read. Maybe the best. Highly recommended. But be patient when you read it- don’t lose interest when the pace slows to grab details in some of the scenes. Every chapter is there for a reason.
第160条评论: If you're a fan of "hard" science fiction, this is a treat. There are so many ideas explored in the book, from nanotech to string theory and of course, interstellar travel. I enjoyed the creative way in which Cixin Liu made use of cutting edge science. There are novels which don't explain science at all and assume technologies (faster than light travel, for example). There are novels which explain only the science in a dry and uninteresting way. This novel gets a nice balance of explaining technologies in a way as to make whole new plot devices I've never seen before in science fiction.As a western reader, I found the cultural context of the world of "Three Body" interesting. Going in, I thought the historical context of the Cultural Revolution would be the most revealing about the author's cultural assumptions. It actually turned out that his description of the alien race was far more revealing. In a way his description and particularly, assumptions about how aliens think was far more illuminating of Cixin Liu's cultural assumptions than anything describing the Chinese characters themselves! It's certainly not something I expected and it gives a very reason to read foreign science fiction.I gave this review 4 stars because while I loved the science, I didn't find myself caring about the characters all that much. It reads a lot like a mystery novel in that there's a nice setup and a nice payoff and the characters are there to drive the plot forward, not necessarily to be developed. This isn't a bad thing, but if you're expecting a character-driven story, this probably isn't the book you're looking for. On the other hand, if you desire being delighted by new scientific ideas, this will be a treat. I can imagine this will be a seminal work for a lot of future sci-fi tropes.I would also like to express my admiration for Ken Liu. His prose is precise, clear and elegant. He's very respectful of the original and I especially like that he doesn't "dumb down" a lot of the culture-specific stuff.
第161条评论: I read the original Chinese version when I was still a college student. It immediately struck me as the best sci-fi fiction ever written in Chinese. What I did not quite realize, at that time, is how the next two books managed to push the boundary even further. They are not just the best Chinese sci-fi. They are the best sci-fi in our generation.Having read the whole trilogy several times, I got a chance to refresh it through Ken Liu's translation. The translation is impeccable: precious, faithful, and beautiful. I can see why some readers may not enjoy it that much. As some reviewers pointed out, the prose can be heavy, sometimes dry. Most of the characters are not very interesting. The plot can sometimes progress too slow while sometimes too fast.But I do think none of these really matters. The originality in TB trilogy is unparalleled to any contemporary sci-fi work. After all, a hard sci-fi is suppose to struck readers with the wildest yet “scientific” imagination and the possibility of nature. The tension between the most rigorous scientific reasoning and the boldest imagination is the holy grail of hard-core sci-fi. I have never seen any book achieved something even close to TB trilogy. And once you have those ideas, the rest are just there to let you present it. Cixin Liu did a great job in the first book and it only got better in the latter two books.
第162条评论: Fascinating take on a first contact story. It explores an interesting reaction from Earth residents that is both startling, and when you think about it, probably realistic :). It's strikingly pessimistic, but at the same time with optimistic notes. There are a lot of elements here you wouldn't normally expect in a first-contact story: spite, anger, despair. But these add tones that make the story less fantasy and more realism. The Chinese cultural revolution plays an important role here and that adds an interesting dimension."Yes was strongly against nuclear war. She knew this was a power that should belong only to the stars."The story seems told in an odd fashion, with much exposition that doesn't really lend a lot to the story, followed by a relatively brief narration of the main plot told as a recollection. The translator's notes mention there are aspects of Chinese novels that will seem unusual to a western reader, and he strove to preserve that character. So I attribute this seemingly odd story telling to a cultural difference. It isn't necessarily a negative. In fact it lends an exotic flavor to the novel.
第163条评论: I don't know if it was the translation or the natural flow of the author, but there were substantial portions of this story that seemed utterly lacking in depth ... the book is riddled with vague and bland descriptions of scenes and actions of characters that made little sense, trite descriptions lacking in color or flavor ... for example there would be passages like "he parked his car and walked to the apartment" ... no descriptions of the scenery around him, no atmosphere, no sounds, no internal monolog to tell us what the character was thinking, just a plain and simple sentence describing a plain and simple action without any environmental scene-setting or any other literary tool to paint a picture for the reader. Perhaps its an aspect of how different Chinese cultural expectations are from ours. Anyhow ... the entire story seemed rather silly to me ... and after seeing all those 4 and 5 star reviews gushing about how intense and deep this story was ... I'm thinking those reviewers must have only ever been exposed to Dr Seuss stories before if they found this book to be deep. It is not deep. It is not masterful. It is not mind-blowing or eye-opening or any of the other superlatives and hyperbolic praise phrases that some reader/reviewers have posted. It's not a bad story, but it is definitely not anywhere near the realm of the hard-science fiction masters ... compared to Asher and Corey and Douglas, this is YA territory.
第164条评论: In "The Three-Body Problem" by Cixin Liu (Ken Liu - English translation) I was treated to some rare Chinese historical fiction, as the story involves both alien invaders and their contact on Earth—and, in a fresh take, someone on Earth other than an American establishes First Contact. The protagonist’s story begins with her childhood during the most horrific times of the many Reform movements that swept China early in the second half of the twentieth century. Starting that far back, we are given a small primer in modern China’s history and culture by the time the story’s climax reaches the present day.But there’s more. There’s science too—radio astronomy, virtual-reality gaming, extra-dimensional manipulation, near-FTL travel, and a planet with an unusual orbit, to say the least, are only some of the highlights. Things get technical enough that I glimpsed one reviewer in passing, complaining that this book ‘read like a tech manual’—but I found it refreshingly reminiscent of Clarke and Asimov. This is still a nerd’s genre—if you can’t take the heat, you’re not going to enjoy the story.The characters and relationships are, however, as fully fleshed-out as one could wish—this is no space opera—and the plot is so clever that I hesitate to give even the slightest of spoilers. You should discover this book for yourself. And—good news—it is the first in a series—so there’s even more to come!
第165条评论: This book was such an amazing and different story than anything I've read before. In the past I've always been the kind of reader to shy away from science fiction that was really heavy on the science side and that might have to change now.The characters and plot is really well thought and put together. The science and history included was really compelling and I appreciated the fact that it was presented in such a way that my lack of knowledge in those fields didn't ruin my enjoyment of the story. Everything was done in such a way that made sense, it was logical and convincing. I would have to do research to see if it was actually all accurate but I definitely believed the author. Everything that I assume is not real was just so well written that it never bothered me that it was obviously fiction.Long story short I finished this book and promptly went to the bookstore and bought book two so I could start it right away.
第166条评论: I took an astronomy class as a kid that changed the way I looked at our world.  This novel reminded me of that time, as I believe it will change the way I consider outer space.I believe those reviews that are critical of the lack of character development are overlooking that this is primarily a plot driven series.  The ideas and concepts it challenges us with is what makes it unique in my opinion.  And the fact that this may be plausible in real life makes it very compelling and frightening.
第167条评论: I'm still in the middle of this novel...I am enjoying it. It's Chinese SF. (Wow)In the same way that Peter F Hamilton is British SF, (I've read nearly all of his books)or Ray Bradbury is American SF.I'm given an insiders view into his society.It's a window into the culture and world view of this author, seen through the lens of a ripping good SF yarn.It's worth reading.I've been reading SF off and on, for 50 years....started with Ray Bradbury  R is for Rocket. I was eleven years old....I've given it 4 stars because I'm still reading it and the plot is still on going.The writing is beautiful. I love reading and can appreciate prose. My favorite non- SF writers are V.Nabokov (Lolita) and Bruce Chatwin(In Patagonia). These guys could really write.Liu's work is full of pathos and humanity. That's why I like this book.It's not a Space Opera Like Peter Hamilton's books, or like Aurther C Clark's.It's more like a mystery novel.
第168条评论: Although this is a high concept, theory rich, bona fide "sci fi" novel, it feels literary. The opening scenes of the first book of the trilogy take place during the Cultural Revolution, and the spare prose (translated, obviously) creates emotional distance for the reader, giving the action a surreal quality that sets the tone for the entire series. The book is about a potential doomsday encounter with a highly advanced alien society, but it is about much more than that. This book is not the "thriller" or "taut, suspenseful ride" towards which many authors aspire. Instead, the thrill is in the exploration of concepts, the strategy of the mind, and the complex motivations of individuals, societies, and cultures (both alien and human).Some western readers might find Liu's distinctive thought processes opaque or strange, but if they are able to enter the world of this novel, they will ultimately find the view through his cultural lens refreshing. The universal touchstones of love, loss, and duty translate well into any language. I loved the change of perspective--the cultural hyper-rationality and the tension of fatalism and hope are very clearly products of late 20th century PRC experience.What choices will you make, and why will you make them? Will it matter?
第169条评论: Unlike anything I have ever read. It feels strange to make such a statement considering I’ve read a lot in almost every genre. The Three Body Problem by Cixin Liu should appeal to hard core science fiction enthusiasts, especially those interested in physics and astrophysics, but it also weaves in fascinating information about the Cultural Revolution and its lasting impact on modern China, makes excellent use of familiar stereotypes in unexpected ways, and creates suspense seemingly out of nothing more than scientific curiosities.  I could try to describe the problem of the three bodies, but would fail miserably, and in the process potentially ruin some of the subtleties of the problem as it manifests itself throughout the novel. One could argue that the novel’s distinctiveness stems from being written in Chinese. But I suspect that its complexity and uniqueness occur despite the translation rather than because of it. After all, the language of math and physics is universal. Or is it?  The Three Body Problem is not a normal novel.Jeffrey Penn May, author of Roobala Take Me Home
第170条评论: , Where the River Splits, Cynthia and the Blue Cat's Last Meow, No Teacher Left Standing, Eight Billion Steps: My Impossible Quest for Cancer Comedy, Finding Your Fiction, and more.
第171条评论: The science part I thoroughly enjoyed all though couldn’t understand exactly the dimensionality reduction and expansion part, but I found the fiction part was amateurish. Da Shi’s character is more like a Hollywood go getter cop, which feels odd and do not fit the overall plot.
第172条评论: I was very interested to learn how SF from China might be different than what I typically read.  Clearly, the political sections of the book and the effects on individuals is much different from what a US citizen or scientist would have experienced during that same period.  I think the translator did a pretty good job of making the story flow syntactically while still maintaining a Chinese temperament.As to the science, there were a number of new areas of speculation that presented visually memorable aspects of higher dimension (string) theory. The development of digital human computation was original and very unique!  On the other hand, nano wire had me thinking about AC Clarke and Niven.  It has been done before.All in all, quite a good piece of work for those who like hard science fiction.  I've gone on to buy the second novel in the series.
第173条评论: The first installment in this three part epic science fiction novel requires that the reader invests themselves in the story of the Trisolarans and Earth Civilization.Even the history lesson about the Chinese cultural revolution plays an important part (though it's often obvious to western readers that the author is Chinese with a bit of somewhat gratuitous nationalism). I rushed through it a bit during my first read, but after the story starts to introduce the truly monumental concepts about cosmic sociology in the second and third books, I had to re-read it. It was even better the second time! The Dark Forest is truly a terrifying place, and the thought experiments that spin off from reading this book leave you begging your friends to read it so you can find a forum in which to discuss them!
第174条评论: Brilliant science fiction concepts largely derived from physics.  I did not identify with one of the main characters, Ye Wenjie, at all, since she seems like a sadistic, depressed, and passive-aggressive nut. Wang Miao was much more likeable but he doesn't really play a big part in this story, just leads us through a fantasy land symbolized by a civilization-based game with levels.  Loved Shi Qiang though.  Can't believe there would be so many people willing to sell out to an alien race 450 years on, even with our imperfections from assuming we're Earth's only valid species.
第175条评论: This was a great novel; and great translation to English (with some footnotes to explain certain choices).  I am not fluent in Chinese - but have some understanding of the cultural drivers in recent history - so the footnotes were revealing to me at any rate.  Amazon forcing me to choose between various moods at the outset of this review left me torn.  I chose suspenseful - but feel that hopeful, dark, nostalgic, and thoughtful all applied.  Light-hearted, not so much.Much like Carl Sagan's "Contact" this novel posits alien contact in a somewhat more realistic way than say "Independence Day".  The motivations of the various characters are believable and, fully human.  The course the plot takes means you might guess the end point, but you'll likely be wildly wrong about the road you'll take to get there.
第176条评论: A journey through scientific achievement and consequences of social injustice. The cost can sometimes outweigh the benefits and lead us into oblivion.
第177条评论: An interesting book, and well translated, something important for me. I listened to the audiobook and thought the reader was good. However, the ideas in the book definitely took precedence over the characters. I barely had time to get to know one character before the point of view and historical period changed, so that individual character arcs were swamped by the ideas the author wanted readers to understand. Physics is not my strong suit, so I found the most interesting chapters of the book were the video game sections in the world of  Trisolaris. These had action, crisis and world-building, and left me wanting to find out what happened next. But I don’t think I’m interested enough to read book two.I also wondered how much of the book was an allegory based on the current leadership of China. Are *they* the real existential threat to the people of China? Many writers living under oppressive regimes use fiction (especially sci-fi) to talk about current real-life conditions. Just a thought.
第178条评论: First: this is a Chinese author. Second: It is a translation. Third: It is about mathematics, physics, protons and quantum effects, astrophysics (HELP!). Fourth: I don't usually read science fiction. Fifth: This book is 400 pages.Guess what? I couldn't put it down. It is about the first communication from beings on another planet (SETI). It is about human reactions to the knowledge of a response from another place in the universe. It is the human side of this heavily scientific story that makes it so interesting. Perhaps aliens, even if they never get here (or we there) can teach us a lot about ourselves.I will be reading more in this series.
第179条评论: I was not prepared for how great a book this turned out to be. I was slightly prepared for the unusual style of the opening because I did read something about how Chinese science fiction operates by different rules. But it was far more of a departure than I had anticipated. I stuck with it and I really enjoyed the way the narrative shaped up in unexpected ways. This is a brilliant approach to hard science fiction with plenty of imaginative special effects within the scientific discourse. I am looking forward to the next piece of the story that will come out this summer. I didn't pay enough attention to the names, so I advise that readers take the time to fix onto the names of the characters, as it's easy to lose your way given that the names are Chinese and the unfamiliarity tends to blur who is doing what. Slow down and try not to miss anything.
第180条评论: I've never enjoyed reading sci-fi growing up as a kid. I found them too exaggerated and unrealistic, but I was probably just too unimaginative and dumb to appreciate the genre. Either way, this book has built up my interest in sci-fi with its mix of mystery, science and Chinese background. It moves quickly through the story, which meant that character development is rather minimal as many have pointed out. I don't necessarily think its a fault of the book as it allowed me go through my first sci-fi quickly, but upon reflection I do feel like there could've been more development. I should really read the sequels though.
第181条评论: This is a fantastic story that takes you back and forth through time and reality. The book funnels your perspective from staunchly scientific and skeptical to completely bewildered back to pragmatic and grounded. The details given for the 3-body problem are quite nice, though other aspects of the science fiction are a bit softer and more fantastical.Both the real world and fantasy settings used are grounded in Chinese history and culture. I would have given this book 5 stars assuming a general English-reading, Chinese audience. But some of the enjoyable nuances of the book (for example, my own parents had been 'sent down to the countryside' during the Cultural Revolution) might be lost on those unfamiliar with modern Chinese history or historical threads of Chinese culture.
第182条评论: I will admit, when I first started reading this book, I couldn't understand why it had gotten such high praise. Yet I ended up reading the whole trilogy. I don't know if it's the translation or the style of writing, but I initially found the writing quite jarring. But once I got into it, I couldn't stop reading. I've gone so far as to tell people that even if you don't love this one, I'd still recommend books 2 and 3. I personally thought they were better.
第183条评论: It does exactly what I want my science fiction to do: take one or two ridiculous premises and then meticulously build a world around them that is totally plausible against reasonable scrutiny. It shows respect for the laws of physics (only taking necessary liberties), and it's disdain for anti-intellectualism is currently very relevant. The story is engaging, while not getting ahead of itself with pacing. I had difficulty getting to know some of the characters, but I think that's partially down to the language difference. I don't think the translation could do much in that respect without changing too many details. This and the subsequent two books, which I binge read in a few days, made me think differently about humanity's place in the universe.
第184条评论: I read the three books in English non-stop, and each got better than the first.  That is truly rare.  I am now reading the Chinese version and re-reading the English version.  That says a lot when you read over 1,000 pages non-stop  It is a lot more than sci-fi, it is universal and broad.  I look forward to seeing the movie on a large screen.  The first book is a bit slow and confusing,  so just be patient as books 2 and 3 are worth the effort of reading book 1.  I would not have spent so much time on the video game chapters.  Just my opinion.  Enjoy.
第185条评论: Literature tends to have this aphoristic quality to it. Regardless of whether what I'm reading is accurate in whole or part (aside from the SciFi content and historically fake characters) this book has managed to capture my attention given the authenticity of the author who is Chinese. The Cultural Revolution of the 1960s is briefly brushed over in US high school history textbooks. It's nice reading about it through a literary perspective. This book so far, even though I'm only 3 chapters in, is on par with other great dystopian texts. As for the SciFi part, this is actually my first SciFi read! I'm looking forward to the other books in this trilogy.
第186条评论: I'm a fussy sci-fi reader and I drop many books because of loose writing.  This story l liked. Some very creative and imaginative writing.  The book certainly kept my attention throughout.There were a few sections where it seemed as if there was too much explanation of a topic.  The writing in those sections seemed to go on too long. My attention would drift until the writing came back to the plot line.  But then the story would get good again.
第187条评论: The basic premise is first contact (by radio telescope) between Earth, a relative paradise, and an alien world with hellish weather because it has three suns. The title references the classic problem in physics of trying to predict the movement of three bodies (apparently you can't). The cultural context is the Cultural Revolution and its slow rehabilitative aftermath (the father of a female protagonist was killed as a counter-revolutionary, and she herself was tarred for the rest of her life while valued for her scientific skills. And she's the one who has some control over the first contact. How charitable does she feel about protecting humanity?)  This novel is worth reading, but it was not the easiest. It helps to have a basic understanding of physics (which I don't) and modern Chinese history (which I do). I rate no higher than three stars only because it was difficult. For me anyway. This is not escapist rocket-ship Sci-Fi!
第188条评论: Since the novel takes place in China and most of the context had to be provided to me as a traditional american, I feel like I learned a lot.  And the scientific ideas presented were well done.  So, a little bit of history and a little bit a new perspective.  This is one of the true benefits of sci-fi.  Well done.
第189条评论: Great stories transport us to a far away future, to a far away land, or even to the past. It is a rare treat to read a book that can do all three togther.I was enchanted by the author beautiful, personal introduction to a very tumultuous event in China's history (the cultural revolution). Additionally, his exploration of quantum science and three tree body problem was spot on.For me, the greatness of any artifact is how interested it makes me in exploring a new field or subject. I m off to the library to buy a few books on the Chinese cultural revolution, quantum science, and the three body problem math solution... That is how great this book is!
第190条评论: At 30% into this book I found the writing tedious and boring.  The character development is from a totaly different cultural background with many appologies of cultural values.  The constant struggle of the characters to not run afoul of their PC  BS is a constant distraction from what could be a good story. This book is not a SF story so much that it is a exposure of the struggle to write in a fascist state.
第191条评论: The Three-Body trilogy reminds me of the Sci-Fi classic of "Foundation" and "Robot" series by Issac Asimov, in which a seemingly simple foundation rule expands into a fascinating and profoundly intriguing universe. The "Laws of Sociology of Civilizations of Universe" is as innovative and insightful as the "three laws of robotics". At same time, there is a level of provocative thinking and edginess not seen in the classic Sci-Fi classics. Think a hybrid of Issac Asimov and Peter Wattts...The translator did a great job of conveying the essence of the the original author's intend with beautifully constructed English narrative,while maintaining the original Chinese characteristics of literature flavor and culture background. While a very worthy read by itself, I can not wait for the second installment, which in my view is the pinnacle of the trilogy and Chinese Si-Fi.
第192条评论: It is better on a second read than the first - It was good the first time, but I found myself thinking it was getting slow and off-topic. It really wasn't, I just didn't understand how it all fit for a while. Its also a little dark, but it is an very interesting exploration of points of view from characters with a very different point of view.
第193条评论: An entertaining combination of twilight zone like surrealism, cold realism, and the wondering curiosity of scientific truth.Looking forward to the next two.
第194条评论: I must say reading the book was refreshing. Not that much scifi literature has reached me from there - I understood there has not been much translated. It is easy to see why The Three-Body Problem was selected for translation. It has the elements of a very classical scifi book, a strong story with good characters, but still with multiple twists that make it so engaging.
第195条评论: I've got about 3 chapters left and already ordered Dark Forest.  My god if this isn't the perfect SciFi book I dont know what it.  The writing is amazing and the story is gripping.  Liu is the best Scifi author alive today!
第196条评论: I am crazy about this book, I brought this book this time as a gift to my son, hope he enjoy the different word in this book.
第197条评论: This science fiction book looks far into the future to consider what science may be possible far beyond the reach of our current science.  It also reflects the nature of Chinese culture and their long term view of the world.  It can be a bit slow at times.
第198条评论: Dark and depressing this book was a big disappointment. Having been an S.F. reader for over 60 years, it worries me that such a pessimistic view of humanity could gain so many kudos. Tho I found the study of the machinations of communist China's bureaucracy interesting, none of the characters was relatable so the human element needed to keep me interested was missing. It was a study in how authoritarian regimes suppress the human spirit and ultimately became such itself. I originally purchased the whole trilogy for myself as my husband. His report that it gets worse in the 2nd two volumes get worse I've concluded it will be a desperate day in a parched dearth of reading material before I continue the trilogy.
第199条评论: As an astrodynamicist, I vouch that the explanations of the three body problem are on the mark.  Other elements of quantum mechanics and multidimensional geometry, not as much.  There is so much scientific and technical content that those without deep technical background will miss many of the most intriguing portions of the novel.
第200条评论: I truly enjoyed the book and the thoughts it created both in terms of quantum physics and philosophy of ethics. The story has a slow and intricate pace you might find in a strong anime storyline which can be hard to push through at times but the strong ending makes it all worth it.
第201条评论: Usual sci-fi - silly plot, no characters of interest.  The Chinese angle added some interest, but the fact that all the names are so similar was confusing.
第202条评论: Interesting story with far too many details that make it longer than needed. Saw how long is the sequel and quit. I was really into the book but couldn't see myself reading those 500 extra pages to figure out the solution to the Three body problem.
第203条评论: The Chinese viewpoint including the horrors of the cultural revolution are fascinating, as is the story itself. The Chinese characters are extremely believable, the westerners, who only play are very minor role, lesse so, The general storyline is fresh and unexpected. All In all a great read. My only complaint is that we have to wait so long for the sequel.
第204条评论: I liked it. The storyline is fascinating, and the translation to English seems to have worked just fine. I will certainly be picking up the next book in the series to see what happens next!
第205条评论: The book is well written, story moves along at a good pace.  There are several unexpected turns in the plot which should keep your interest up.
第206条评论: I just erased what I first wrote because it was too full of spoilers.  There were some things that at first disappointed me but then I saw where the author was going with that.  The book contains some great speculations that are well worth the effort!
第207条评论: Fantastic book. It is a well balanced mix of science and Science Fiction, of course strongly leaning towards Sci Fi.It does not follow the familiar writing pattern. I attribute this it’s Chinese origin, still in the way it creates and handles complexity of the story I see it in the same ball park as Stephen King
第208条评论: I really tried to like this book. After dragging my eyes to about 60% of the text - I had been forewarned that it starts slowly - I realized that I could go on no more. The idea is interesting but the story moves along at an incredibly slow pace. Also, I found the motivations of the bad characters to be completely far fetched and not at all believable. I couldn' t relate emotionally to anybody in that book. Another thing is that many of the relevant facts are told many years after as a grand disclosure, a method of story telling I do not like. I'm sorry I will not find out what happens in the end but to have to read hundreds of pages (this is a trilogy!) to discover what could have been said in a quarter of the time... I simply don't have the patience.
第209条评论: I had high expectations for this book based on the rave reviews and the attention it got, so I was a little disappointed. It's a good story but not mind blowing. I really enjoyed the perspective the author had on the importance of science. Some of the ideas about the tech were over my head but I am not a theoretical physicist. For my purposes he could have said 'a wizard did it'. I did not find it interesting enough to eagerly anticipate the translation of the other books in the series, but I may read them.
第210条评论: Super cool science in this book. Characters are rather flat, but the story flows pretty well enough to engage  The big payoff is the brilliant speculative science/physics and a super creative alien  v. human game-theory theme.  P.S. I also picked up a number of articles that a Chinese big budget film crew is going to be doing an adaptation of the first book.
第211条评论: I read the free sample on amazon page and couldn’t put down after that, can’t wait to continue the series
第212条评论: To read this book is to be stretched like a rubber band. To go from feeling small to feeling large, only to be suddenly shrunk and flung across a chasm. I loved it, but I'm sorry, I must stop writing so I can start reading book two and try not to mourn too much the fact that soon I will have finished book three. Three body problem? Three book problem!
第213条评论: I had a hard time finishing this book. I don’t blame the translator, nor the author. It’s probably very difficult translating from Chinese into English. I am fluent in Spanish and English, and every single book that I have read that was translated from one of those languages into the other definitely lost something in the translation.  I hesitated buying this book for a long time because of my experience reading translated works, but I had hoped this one might be different due to all of the great reviews and awards. But it wasn’t. Wish I could read Chinese because the basic premise was interesting and it would be great to have access to the fiction of China.
第214条评论: An innovative approach to first contact and the theory of a multidimensional universe. In addition, the author provides insight into the impacts caused by the cultural revolution in China. Particularly refreshing is the author's attitude that humanity has the determination to unify and survive. This series is a must read for all science fiction enthusiasts.
第215条评论: This won the 2015 Hugo Award for best novel, and I found it disappointing.  The book is relentlessly depressing and unpleasant.  It is character-driven: The characters are realistic, which the author has managed to make boring. The villains are driven by hate, greed and realism, and don't look like villains. A long sequence in the book concerns a nonexistent, boring video game (the characters themselves say that it's boring!) which it is impossible to win. There are no future societies worthy of the name, and no speculation about them.  The science is poor.  The aliens are impossible, and their society is not believable (there's no way for them or it to exist.) A crucial plot point is that a planet orbiting a multi-sun system is supposed to have an unstable, unpredictable orbit.  Unstable is absolutely true, but unpredictable is false; Astrophysicists routinely simulate multibody systems by decomposing them into pairs of centroids and numerically simulating these.  Also, a crucial plot point (communication) depends on a  convenient, unrealistic and nonexistent solar behavior.  I've been persuaded never to read this author again, and deleted this novel from my Kindle.
第216条评论: I am sure there is plenty of interesting science behind the argument. It would be great to have a companion reading on the theories for people with not much background in physics, math, cosmology, nanotechnology, etc. Great reading though.
第217条评论: It got a bit handwavy at times explaining some of the more intriguing plot points, but there were some really fun points of the story. The authors voice feels very other, maybe because I’ve never read much by Chinese authors. Enjoyed getting used to it. Nice footnotes by the translator explaining some of the plays on words from the Chinese. Looking forward to the rest of the volumes.
第218条评论: I realized I called the characters one-dimensional and still think this is a book that every science fiction buff should read.  The plot is like nothing I have ever read.  I am still thinking about the ramifications of it.
第219条评论: Not 5 stars in my book (sic) but worth the read. The story definitely took a twist near the end of Book 1 that bodes well for the rest of the series.  I will most likely read the second book in the series.
第220条评论: Well written. It caught my attention from the very start. A nice combination of interesting ideas, vivid imagination and good storytelling.
第221条评论: I always try to read the Hugo Award winners.  This one is really very good, and the Chinese to English translation is very good as well.  I didn't know that it was the first in a trilogy, so I'm only giving it four until I see how the rest of it unfolds.
第222条评论: Very interesting. Nice juxtaposition in the chapter between the "hard" science and the "fantasy" chapters. It took me at least halfway into the novel to understand what was going on. Nice plot twists at the end to tie everything together.
第223条评论: I absolutely could not put this book down!  The novel starts during the Chinese Cultural Revolution, which to western readers may seem more alien than any alien can be, but that just added to the appeal for me.  There are enough stunning ideas to fill half a dozen SF novels here.  Also some very memorable and often humorous characters (officer DaShi).  Enjoy this book right now!
第224条评论: Cixin Liu's view of extraterrestrial contact is like no other. It looks at the experience from many views and levels. It begs the question: be careful what you ask for.
第225条评论: Read the entire series. Each one better than the next. I don't give five stars. This is a do not miss series. New concepts, lots of science and great characters. Took me to a place I had never been before.
第226条评论: The beginning was a little confusing. But it picked up the pace. The author or translator is especially good at visualization of events. The trisolarians are a truly unique alien life form.
第227条评论: But it is a refreshing to read an author from China and how that culture has developed is central to the story.  A little hard to keep the characters straight in my mind, but THAT could be My Mind, LOLRecommended !
第228条评论: I just finished the first book. It's slow in the beginning, but soon it takes the pace and becomes extremely engaging. There is a lot of sci-fi stuff with great imagination of fundamental particle physics.
第229条评论: I've always wondered what amount of patience was required to paint entire landscapes on a grain of rice. Now I know that's part of the aesthetics of the Chinese soul.So, enjoy the ride these pages provide, all the universes unfolded at your grasp. It's a worthwhile experience, no matter the scale.
第230条评论: I liked the extra effort the translator put in to make sure English readers could relate to events in the story. It was especially satisfying to see that my prior understanding of the general effects of the Cultural Revolution matched with the book.
第231条评论: G r e a t. B o o k. G r e a t b o o k. G r e
第232条评论: It's not unusual for hard science novels to completely lack character development, but the shear amount of hard science being thrown around also prevents a clear plotline. Like other reviewers, I don't know if it's a translation issue or simply an overreliance of science in place of key writing cornerstones.
第233条评论: I really enjoyed this book, it has some great elements of science but the story is also fantastic. I do is get lost a little when talking about extra detentions. Also, I'm ashamed to admit that I had a hard time keeping track of characters due to the cultural names used being unfamiliar. Those problems aside, I thought it was great
第234条评论: The book starts with an interesting opening but fairly quickly became fairly mundane and boring. The characters aren't very exciting, but they're definitely very fleshed out and well written, I just didn't care at all about what they were doing or their personality. All the technical physics jargon and mathematical problems posed by the 3 body problem seemed interesting, but then I remembered I don't like math and having uninteresting characters try to figure out complicated math problems in literate form was just boring.I kept reading and expecting something exciting to happen...and it just doesn't. There's a lot better sci-fi out there.
第235条评论: This and the direct sequel (The Dark Forest) are both conceptually brilliant, in different ways. If you like to read science fiction to feel a sense of wonder and awe: read this book! There is no way you will regret it.
第236条评论: I never want to stop learning, and this book stretched my thinking.  How fabulous to have a such original narrative to explain to the layman what is so totally possible.  The characters fulfilled the responsibilities of the story line, and could have been fluffed up a tad.  Reading this book brought back memories of the imagination of Asimov and Bradbury.  谢谢
第237条评论: The author tries to get you to imagine what its like for aliens on another planet. I found it difficult to follow.
第238条评论: A new way of looking at the apocalypse scenario, with some cool, in depth science of how it might be possible. My only complaint is choppy dialogue that is similar to a dubbed  foreign movie.
第239条评论: A hard-science story from an unusual cultural viewpoint - and including a conspiracy-theory plot that, even in an age of conspiracy theories, we have never seen before. If you have always wondered where the antiscience sentiment that dominates our time comes from, here is a novel of disturbing possibilities.
第240条评论: Hard to understand all the hype surrounding this book. Poorly written and difficult for me to get through. I’m one of those readers that will never abandon a book, but this one came close to breaking that rule. Intriguing concepts and storyline, but the writing is stilted and disorienting.
第241条评论: This is just the beginning of blowing your mind away. This is a masterpiece of imagination.This is not an old school sifi.I read the Chinese version years ago and I was totally shocked by the imagination of Liu. In my mind, this is the first ever world class sifi novel written by a Chinese author.Wait until you read this book and the second one - The Dark Forest. Tell me if I am correct.
第242条评论: A fascinating mixture of sci fi and Chinese historical fiction.  Author has a great deal of compassion for his characters and is able to make you understand their feelings and perspectives.
第243条评论: I really enjoyed this book! I enjoyed learning some Chinese history and I liked the story and writing style. I appreciated the translator's note at the end which helped explain why the style is a bit different than you would be used to from Western writers. I can't wait for the next one to come out, which I understand will come from a different translator.
第244条评论: I honestly didn't care what happened to most of the characters. I read it as I would read a textbook. Extract the basic facts and fit them together. I won't be reading the rest of the series.
第245条评论: This book would definitely surprise you. Would it be extracts from Chinese history? Or the plot? Or the scientific background? There’s only one way to understand, i suppose :)
第246条评论: The narrative is boring at best and takes a backseat to worldbuilding. The book presents a steady stream of concepts for the reader to marvel at. Some of them are admittedly really interesting, but they don't add up to a believable whole. It reads like a fever dream wrapped around a selection of cool things the author read on wikipedia.
第247条评论: Original, thoughtful and well translated. A sociopolitical struggle spanning 40 light years. I enjoyed the cultural revolution flashbacks dispersed throughout. Not only was this an exelent sci-fi, but a glimpse into a historical struggle not visited by most westerners.
第248条评论: Remarkable.  Get ready to say, "Oh, wow, I didn't see that coming" - a lot.  This is a great read all by itself but is also a springboard to two more of the best SF books ever written.  In some alternate universe Fermi is murmuring softly, "Oh, THAT explains it"...
第249条评论: Interesting scientific  ideas (made me think) and Chinese cultural information along the way. It was dense and hard reading in parts, but I enjoyed it.
第250条评论: I had several people recommend this book to me. I enjoyed the look into  Chinese life, and the concept, from a sci fi standpoint was good. But the story wasn’t compelling enough for me to finish the trilogy any time soon.
第251条评论: The book was filled with metaphor and written in a beautiful style. The characters were welled developed, and there was no clear distinction between good and evil. Cixin Liu composed her writing like an artist would paint, and I enjoyed seeing the plot thicken. This book thouroughly deserved the Hugo Award.
第252条评论: Just finished the science fiction novel "The Three-Body Problem" written by Cixin Liu and translated by Ken Liu.  Let me tell you, this was a difficult SCI FI to get thru.  Very thought proving.  Different than any science fiction I've ever read.  Usually I can read a science fiction in around 1-3 days.  This took me longer.  According to the literature that accompanies this book, Cixin Zliu is considered China's greatest science fiction writer.  This I can understand.  The book is a combination of recent history (the Chinese revolution and all its horrors), human tragedy and triumph, great intellectual speculation, and hard science.  Interestingly sometimes I found the novel's description of those who make up the story and their interactions with each other almost too simplistic.  Other times the complexity blew my breath away.  Again not easy to read but well worth it.  I intend to read the sequel next.  Recommended, but don't expect to blow thru this novel quickly.On a side note the translator Ken Liu himself is a science fiction writer of some renown in America.  Reading his article at the end of the book was fascinating.  The juggling act of translating this complex novel for the American public without losing the flavor of the Chinese culture and not having too many side annotations was obviously very difficult.  In my opinion from what I experienced when reading this book, he did a fabulous job!  I subsequently have pre-ordered his collection of short stories.Using the Kindle to read this book was also helpful.  The software of the Kindle apps on my iPad allowed me to bookmark the pages when an annotation came up, jump to that annotation's information, and then jump quickly back to the bookmarked page without disturbing the flow of the book too much.  And I found the info in these annotations extremely insightful and necessary to get a complete comprehension of the book.Definitely a book for the hard science fiction fan.
第253条评论: I thoroughly enjoyed reading this. Being from a science background (BS in Biochemistry, starting grad school in the fall), I appreciated how much research the author did for this material.
第254条评论: This story requires trying to understand the physics necessary to the plot but rewards your efforts with a highly inventive concept of extraterrestrial threat, and the tension that goes with it.
第255条评论: Great sci fi novel. A tragedy for mankind, or the start of extinction level adventure?  The story keeps you guessing until the very end, and then some. Woof!
第256条评论: This is one of those rare few books which is SO amazingly good that it's hard for me not to ramble on excitedly, ending in a bunch of gibberish. I'll try not to do that, but I'm making no promises!Several things about this story intrigued me from the beginning: science fiction is one of my favourite genres, so there's that. The premise was also intriguing. But it was the fact that this is originally a novel written in Chinese which really caught my attention. Though I'm a polyglot and lover of languages, it has been several years since I've read anything that wasn't originally written in English. That was one (but not the only) reason I fell in love with this book. After having read so many stories set in the U.S. and occasionally Europe, it was both exotic and refreshing to read something that takes place in China, both in the tumultuous times of the Cultural Revolution as well as in present day. And it was also fascinating to read a story not originally written in English. True to Ken Liu's (the translator for the English version) word, part of the narrative flows in a cadence which is smooth and familiar to English readers, yet part of it arranges the English words in a way that you honestly do get a glimpse at the structure of the Chinese narrative beneath the translation, the original narrative on which it was built. The effect lets us relate, yet also provides a clear reminder that we're reading something written in another language. The shifts in perspective and voice are interesting because they're done in a way that is very different from English narrative.And then...there's the story itself. And WHAT. A. STORY. I won't say too much because there are tons of surprises and bombshells and unexpected plot twists (some which sneak up on you to blindside you out of nowhere and others which hide smugly in plain sight from the very beginning, yet you don't recognize them for what they are until much later) and an engaging, fun, sometimes scary ride...easily one of the absolute best books I've read in the past few years. It starts out slowly and calmly, but ratchets up into a thrilling experience that is impossible to put down. And underneath it all, a very profound message for humanity, too.A masterpiece, plain and simple.
第257条评论: What happens if we make.contact with life form from a different planet? Only upon them discovering us, there intentions are not what we think. Good read, although a bit technical at times.
第258条评论: I was sold on this book by some people who compared it to the masterpieces of Western sci-fi by authors such as Heinlein (indeed, one person specifically compared Liu to Heinlein!). Let me be clear right away: this is as far from truth as it can possibly be. By the standards of sci-fi as I know it (and I am a prolific reader of books, especially from the "golden age" period - Asimov, Heinlein, Le Guin, Shekley etc), this rates poor on pretty much any count.First things first. This is not hard sci-fi, nowhere eve near, despite what you may have read in other reviews. This is more like what a person comes up with after reading a lot of pop sci-fi books, and blindly applying the concepts as if they were magic spells to wow the audience. I mean, an integrated circuit etched out on a surface of an elementary particle stretched out to macroscopic proportions, really? The amount of facepalm in that single concept (which, mind you, is one of the key plot devices, to which alone several pages of the book are devoted!) is staggering. But the rest of the physics in this are along the same lines - it's not that there's a lack of accurate stuff, but where it exists, it's for things that we already know full well. But all of the fictitious physics in the book ranges from "hmm?" to "WTF, this is not how it can possibly work at all".The story is surprisingly non-engaging. I mean, there is a plot, but it is very unconvincing, and kinda limps along, at a very slow pace that doesn't seem to be justified by anything other than the desire of the author to wax poetic (which he's not good at, but that's the next point). It's all very tedious because it's pretty much impossible to establish an emotional connection to any of the characters, much less put oneself in their shoes - they're all so wooden and shallow. Most of the supporting characters are outright living cliches, and all of the main ones get only as much attention as is needed for them to move the story onward in the desired direction.When looking at the plot abstractly, ignoring the character dynamics, it's not really any better. It honestly feels like something a junior school student would come up with upon the first exposure to sci-fi. It is also a very much an "idiot plot" that would fall apart in an instant if only the entire universe in the book didn't conspire to maintain it. I suspect this is also the reason for such shallow characters - they're just automatons with plot hardwired in their brain, and because the choices they need to make to advance it are so ridiculous, the characters become unbelievable as well.Finally, the writing itself, by which I mean the art of weaving words and sentences together in such ways as are pleasing to the reader and stimulating his sense of aesthetics. This is seriously one of the worst books in that regard that I have read in several years, and this includes fanfiction! The writing style is very chopped, bland and primitive, again only just barely enough to convey the ideas, and not a iota beyond that. What's especially annoying is that the author himself seems to be unaware of this, and tends to be rather long-winded at times, making this very painful to read. Admittedly, I don't know to what extent this is a translation issue, but then again I've read many books translated from other languages, including my own native language (which isn't English), that didn't have these problems even in the more mediocre translations. So either the translation is truly horrible, or Chinese is really special, or the original really is that bad. Based on all the other problems with the book, I'm assuming the latter.A TL;DR summary. The book reads like it's written by a person who has no talent nor skill at writing sci-fi (or any kind of fiction), but who is obsessed with a rather vague idea that he wants to convey to his reader at any cost. The only way this can possibly be worth the pain of wading through the clumsy language, unconvincing plot and wooden characters, is if you are interested in the ideas, and I personally didn't find anything novel there.
第259条评论: Reasons to read the Three Body Problem1. Chinese Science Fiction is almost an entirely new genre; what I mean by this is, while Science Fiction has been translated into the Chinese as early as Jules Verne, and has had an influential role in the formation of natively chinese literary genres (see the work of David Der Wei Wang on Monsters and Fin-de-siecle China), native Chinese writers writing in the standard conventions of the SciFi genre is new, especially after the post-Cultural Revolution purges.2. The implication of this, I think, if you're a scifi fan, is that you get to see your favorite tropes -- alien contact, hard science, techno-science salvation type narratives -- in a unfamiliar context. It's fun to see how much what we take for granted in reading is imbedded in culture.3. Particular to the Three Body Problem, which is set, in one timeline, in the Cultural Revolution, is that its an fascinating introduction to the kind of rhetorical tactics used against intellectuals during the Cultural Revolution. The fictional scientists in The Three Body Problem suffer the very real problems of the years between 1966 and 1976, and that suffering is something integral to the plot(which I'll leave ...). This is something you can read all over history books (e.g. Roderick Macfarqhuar's Mao's Last Revolution), but that I have not seen depicted so lucidly in any work in English.4. It is a solidly plotted Scifi Thriller -- the science, though at times tendentious -- meets the actions in the world in a way which explains but does not trivialize. So, even though The Three Body Problem is clearly a work of hard sf, I think it succeeds were many hard sf books often fail. Despite the out of the world physics (and the explanations for them) the real driving force in this book are human desires that could be found equally in Faulkner or Fitzgerald.
第260条评论: So Wikipedia tells me this book was originally published in 2006, translated to English in 2014 because it was so popular in China, then went on to win the Hugo Award in 2015. So, yeah, safe to say it's established itself as a pretty good novel.And I'd have to say this novel earned it. Although it may seem that nothing can be considered truly original in this day and age, The Three-Body Problem comes fairly close. I'm not even sure how to describe this novel in this review because I feel like there's nothing I can compare its storyline to. Perhaps I just haven't read enough?So here we go, brief summary: The Three-Body Problem, at its core, is yet another novel about the first human contact with an intelligent, alien species, and that alien species harbors ill-intent for our race because, as usual, we live in a very desirable place in the galaxy. However, all similarities with other novels stops there.Because lo and behold, it was US that established contact first! Us that invited them! And some of us that welcome them! And this is hard scifi, with details and history from the past, taking place in real time, using the effects and realities of actual space and science progression, and it's all so beautifully described and vastly entertaining, and just well done overall, and yeah, I don't want to go on or go into any detail because I don't want to spoil anything.I will say this, though. The author, Liu Cixin, is a big fan of metaphors and similes. Luckily, so am I. Also, Liu Cixin has no problems with long sections of exposition. Luckily, neither do I. So perhaps I'm biased? I'll also say this, that the second quarter of this novel drags pretty badly, and I was hovering somewhere between 3 and 4 stars at that time, but the last half made up for it.I think that well and truly covers nothing, so sorry about that. I'm not sure I'm excited enough to actually continue the series, though, because I think from here on out there will be more fiction than science, and I really just enjoyed the science more than the fiction in this book, especially the history bits that are sure to never occur again.
第261条评论: Almost finished  I’ll look forward to the series on Netflix
第262条评论: You know that gif from The Wire? The one where the camera is panning around the dude while his mouth is agape, after having a piece of critical information revealed to him? Yeah, that was me through out two-thirds of this book.This book can feel a bit heady with the science, but it isn’t as heavy handed as folks are making it out to be. As someone who barely grasped these subjects in high school and college, I loved it.
第263条评论: I wasn't sure what I was getting into with this book but it was way more imaginative and thoughtful than I was expecting. I am in the second book of the series now and i am not disappointed.
第264条评论: It's a wonderful, thought-provoking book with an excellent writing style... until the third act.[SPOILERS AHEAD]What begins as a beautifully written tale of human scientific advancement, the problems inherent in alien contact, Chinese revolutionary politics, and disillusionment with humanity sadly loses much of its splendor towards the end of the book. Unfortunately, Cixin's grand story falls apart when the actual aliens are "revealed."For all intents and purposes, these beings are carbon-copies of humanity, just slightly (several hundred years) more advanced, with the same human weaknesses and desires. They want to come to earth, because their world is beset by a chaotic solar cycle that destroys all of their civilization at random intervals. They've developed ways to pass some information on the the next "iteration" of their society, but their sun will soon swallow their planet entirely. After receiving an invitation from earth, from a scientist who no longer believes that humans deserve to live, the aliens set out for earth in order to conquer a new home free from random catastrophe. Meanwhile, ambitious humans have developed a virtual-reality game on earth designed to help the alien civilization survive their chaotic star system.There are a number of problems with this idea, but perhaps the most jarring is that, for all intents and purposes, the aliens are just... human. They seem to be driven by the same biology, the same the same science, the same ideologies that make humans human. There is very little "alien" or unknown about the "Trisolarans", as they're known in the book. We are given no idea of what they look like- but given their desire to settle on earth, they must be able to breathe and eat and live in much the same way humans do. In addition, the human characters towards the end of the book are little more than cardboard cutouts of stereotypes like "soldier" , "policeman" or "scientist".The opening of the book contains poignant discussions of the psychological trauma and stress that would plague the human race should even the  existence of an alien race be revealed. These ideas and dialogues are well written and fascinating- I just wish the author had delved further into these ideas, and left the aliens to the imagination. If you want a truly frightening, alien intelligence in a book, I highly recommend Vernor Vinge's "A Fire Upon the Deep" or Peter F. Hamilton's "Pandoras Star."TL;FR - the book is worth a read, but keep your expectations tempered, especially given the 4.5 star aggregate review.
第265条评论: I have read an enormous amount of science fiction over the years.  So much so that many of the truly original future and alien constructs have become almost clichéd.  Let’s face it; it is hard to be original with so much having been written within the genre.  I was therefore intrigued to discover this work, translated from the Chinese.  Not only is this science fiction, but it is also an excellent history lesson for those interested in the Chinese Cultural and Communist Revolutions.As one story thread deals with the present day, and pending alien encounter, another has its basis in the Chinese Cultural Revolution.  The threads come together quite well in the end.  But, of course, it is not the end, as this is the first book of a trilogy.UPDATE AFTER READING VOLUME TWO: Do yourself a favor and read this book, if only to provide the background necessary to appreciate the second book of the trilogy, The Dark Forest.  I found it to be perhaps the finest work of science fiction I have ever read.Without revealing spoilers, suffice it to say that the plot is well laid and the story moves along at a good pace.  The alien life forms presented in the story are quite original and intriguing.  There is not a whole lot of “hard” science fiction or technical jargon, yet there is enough to keep the reader thinking.  In many ways, it as similar to some of the work of Ursula LeGuin, who excelled in what I might refer to as sociological or anthropological science fiction.  Definitely worth a read and I will proceed to the second book of the trilogy.
第266条评论: A writer friend of mine pressed this book upon me unequivocably, mentioning in passing that one of the book's biggest fans was Barack Obama. How could I refuse?It was unfortunate that I was, when I started The Three-Body Problem, in the afterglow of having read the latest and best novel from the planet's greatest living novelist, Javier Marias, Berta Isla. A pretty tough act to follow, to say the least.So I must be forgiven for perhaps being less than generously disposed to prose that limps off the page, at best, and at worst, whose characters aspire to caricature and cardboard. The extra-terrestrials? When revealed, they're just like us, only duller.As fiction, stultifyingly dull and clueless. As Science Fiction, though, in terms of high concept, science-philosophical queries, fractal insights spanning the multi-various universes, nested enormities of dimensions, intergalactic espionage as subverting our own grasp of reality and potential scientific progress?We can all name Sci-Fi writers who used speculative fiction for merely satirical ends, or writers who drape a multiverse in empyrean thought and inspiring, deeply artful prose. The 21st Century's best trilogy has already been written, with reality in all its multiplicity as a mere starting point: Alan Moore's Jerusalem. There are plenty of novels of the undead to amuse, but there's only one Green Eyes by the late Lucius Shepard. SciFi can cast a fantastical speculative vision of the future, but at its best, with Philip K. Dick, Ray Bradbury, Arthur C. Clarke and a host of others, an inward glance into the microcosm of the soul, of the heart, is also possible. As fiction, The Three-Body Problem is at best, amateurish. On the Science level of grasp, probity and vision, this is the masterpiece everyone says it is.I bet this trilogy will make a much better movie than the paper version. Even with my caveats, I'll be reading the rest, just for the occasional mind-blowing, universe-winking-right-at-you stuff.
第267条评论: Expect no characters.   Author Liu plays the psyche of humanity and human civilizations and the psyche of an alian culture on the stage of science.  The collective souls of humanity in all its variety are the protagonist.  The journey and the challenge concerns our growth
第268条评论: Do you enjoy science fiction? Do you like aliens? Do you yearn for an immense world-building experience pulling you through thousands of years of human defeat and success building you up a universal ladder of mind blowing technology and physics?If you said yes to these questions, please read this series.Liu's series is on par or if not, dare I say it, better than that of Asimov and Clarke. Now I say this due to the ammount of raw detail he put into his story. All the technologies he proposes feel like things that are plausible. He doesn't just tell you that some technology exists, he goes deep into some fundamental properties of how it works and into its limitations.Don't let this turn you off if you don't happen to have a masters in engineering, because none of how he explains it feels overwhelmingly  complex, despite the fact the whole thing is translated from Chinese. There are some cultural hurdles to overcome through translation but there are footnotes that aleviate confusion with American customs and Chinese pop culture. But there are times when you just have to shrug off certain character actions and beliefs and chalk it up to the culture divide and accept it for what it is.Now there are times when the story slows down, however most of these times are just background information necessary for the plot ahead. But don't let that deter you, this book will pull you in and keep you guessing the entire time. And I mean THE ENTIRE TIME.My biggest problem reading this was the character names. Being American I had a bit of a tough time differentiating the characters, but this is just due to my lack of familiarity with Chinese names. But  truly not that big of a problem.With an amazing plot, a huge cast of characters, an immense time and world scale, this book was way beyond what I thought it could be. It is the best science fiction story I've ever read.Please, for your own livelihood, read this. Its deep. It will make you think and imagine things you never dreamed of dwelling on.
第269条评论: At first I thought this read would be of the historical fiction genre, as it dealt with the Chinese 'cultural revolution' of the early 60s.  Then it turned into Sci Fi.  I found relating to any of the characters difficult, as they seemed oddly incomplete to the point of nearly ethereal.  I attribute that primarily to the author's wanting to move the story along, at the expense of fleshing out the characters.  There were a few 'spoon feeds' by the author, telling the reader what to think, and also a few anachronisms.  These kicked me out of the story for a moment; others may not care either way.The primary story is about a struggle between an organization made up of 'the only good human is a dead human' crowd, roughly comparable to the Gaea worshipers we have running loose in the world today, and those trying to save humanity from both this group and an alien invasion fleet, on their way and due in about 450 years.  This book doesn't detail how they deal with those challenges, although some readers will, based on their knowledge of physics and what the book tells them, discern how to deal with both decisively.  Sadly, this latter group will not be reading the sequels, as they've already figured it out and are unwilling to spend the time or suffer more esoteric shenanigans.Did I enjoy the read?  From a fascinated 'what will the author conjure up next' perspective, I'd say overall that yes, it was enjoyable.  Is it a Hugo award winner?  Yes, but pales in comparison to many others I have read.  Not sure what that says about the book or myself, but there is room in the literary world for all kinds of readers.  And writers.
第270条评论: Excellent reading, very deep and with twists not easily found in science fiction books. A must-read for any sci-fi enthusiast
第271条评论: Would recommend to anyone looking for a great sci-fi book . Wonderfully imaginative but grounded in humanity. Could not put the book down.
第272条评论: A fascinating and thoroughly enjoyable read, "The Three-Body Problem" is an unquestioned success in the otherwise very uneven genre of "hard physics science-fiction". Filled with history, aliens and celestial mechanics, this novel very much offers something for everyone. The quality of the translation is superb, straddling the conversion into idiomatic English when needed, while still often also preserving the Chinese way of thinking and expressing oneself.Where Greg Egan fell short with "The Clockwork Rocket" and "Incandescence" in trying to introduce too much complex physics, "The Three-Body Problem" succeeds. Here the underlying science passes muster whether you're an expert physicist or a casual reader, because this is a strong story-driven novel. I'm very much looking forward to the English-language release of the sequel in the coming months.
第273条评论: This review is after having read thru all the books in the trilogy.  This was an impressive beginning to a visionary series that I feel transcends sci fic genre.  Believe it or not, this book, as good as it is, is in my opinion, the least of the 3 books.  But what really struck me is the consistency of flow thruout the e novels.  The author's central vision stats true from the first pagd of this book to the final chapter of the last book in the trilogy.  This is certainly not a fairy tale, but a clear and dispassionate vision of the universe and our humble place in the scheme of things.  Please go read, and be awed as I still am.
第274条评论: Hi,I am a SF fan but I don't often write reviews. With this book I feel compelled.I was initially reluctant to purchase 'The three body problem' as it was from a Chinese author. I felt that the sociological and philosophical differences between our cultures would be too great for me to enjoy the story.ButThis is an extremely well written book. Kodos to the translator but the author triumphes here!  The storyline is great, the prose is delightfull, and the charcters are well developed. You know when you feel empathy for a fictional character? Well for me, this is that sort of book! I need to know what happens to these characters. I have just purchased volume two.Iain
第275条评论: I am relatively sure that the Remembrance of the Earth's Past trilogy will be remembered in the future as one of science fiction's classics and a must read. It is hard to say more in this review without spoiling people but I was seriously in awe of the Trilogy up until the last page, especially the way the author introduces concepts that that have, to my knowledge, not existed before in science fiction. It is for this reason that I think it will go down in science fiction to be as famous as Asimov's 3 Laws. I also love that this series is for a change, not centered on Europe or America but China and I personally learned a lot I didnt know about Chinese history.
第276条评论: Paraphrasing the well-known fellow reader quoted on the back cover, I would call this book - starting from its weird title - wildly chaotic. This kind of chaotic narration may easily prevent you from finishing the book. It is difficult to tell, whether this is cultural, an awful translation, or a bizarre plot. Most likely – all of these things have a role. I finished reading it only out of respect to the Hugo award.
第277条评论: Mind blowing,just finished reading it! I highly recommend this book to any one.Before I started reading it, I thought it will be a book with highly technical details.But, the book is a murder mystery first, a story about human condition next and keeps you in suspense through out .Even when there are technical concepts, its explained in such a simple manner that anyone can understand.Kudos to the author Cixin Liu and also to the English translator Ken Liu who did such an incredible job.I devoured the book in about 4 days and already ordered the 2nd and 3rd part as well.The last part of the trilogy is not yet out , will be out on Sep 20 2016 and is on pre-order. I will start reading the 2nd part of the trilogy and post reviews on it once I am done reading.
第278条评论: I downloaded this book from the Kindle store because I was intrigued by the idea of  science fiction from Communist China. I enjoyed the book hugely.  It's part of a trilogy and I intend to read the other two.  But in addition I was forced to confront my own ignorance about Chinese science and scientists.  Large parts of the story refer to real people and real places that I am interested to investigate further.  It's like a world of science that I never knew existed.  Translation is excellent and the translator manages to maintain just the right amount of cultural difference in his presentation of the work.  And, be honest now.  Don't you really yearn to wow your buddies at work with your knowledge of the complexities of the 'three body problem'?
第279条评论: Interesting peek into the mind of the Asian thought process.  It shocked me with the low regard for human life.  Don't fret about the science, after all it is science fiction not science fact.
第280条评论: As a reader, one have to be thankful for those books that do not let you stop. This is one of those.
第281条评论: Excellent concept and , I enjoy political intrigue in my stories.  The only drawback here, and it will keep me from reading the sequels, is translation.  Now, the tranlator's note indicates he tried to keep some of the character of the native language intact, walking a balancing line between making it comfortable for english-speaking readers and making it accurate.  For me, this fell a bit on the uncomfortable side of the line.  It just kept me from getting that full-immersion experience I tend to get with my favorite authors. A mere quibble, however.  You will enjoy the story, I just wanted to say that some might be put off by the style conveyed in translation.  Cheers.
第282条评论: I cannot comment on the writing since I do not speak Mandarin, however, the ideas are plentiful and the author pulls you into a wonderful first contact novel filled with surprises. I will not give any spoilers but will note that the depiction of the past, ie the Red Guards "struggle sessions", powerfully conveys how horrendous state sanctioned mob rule can become. I plan on immediately starting book II, "The Dark Forest" and have already ordered the final book in the trilogy.
第283条评论: I thought the story was very interesting, particularly the historical aspects. Likable characters, suspense, mystery, science, sci-if and Chinese history and cultural. This book combines all these concepts in to an enjoyably easy to read story. I think the translator must have done an excellent job (as I do not speak or read Chinese, I cannot say for certain, but really enjoyed how the book was written).
第284条评论: Short version: A phenomenal book in hard sci-fi. Highly recommended for fans of the genre.Longer version: A great thriller/mystery on it's own merits, while still presenting very imaginative ideas about extraterrestrial contact and the future of science and technology. The style is great, yet quite different from western sci-fi, which may be a nice refreshment for western readers. Strong characters, great set-up and mystery, and a very strong reveal. By it's narrative structure, quite reminiscent of Stephen Baxters "Time": a long build-up and an explosion of imagination at the very end. Absolutely recommended, for sci-fi and hard sci-fi fans alike.
第285条评论: This first in a trilogy stands with the greats of science fiction.  Scientifically engaging, literary juxtapositions, social backgounds to give nuance, and characters that don't overdo it.  There aren't really any  heros in this book, but there certainly are characters.  The science is not easy,  yet it is approachable.  It was a quick yet very engaging read, never boring.  If your a fan of late 20th and early 21st century science fiction writers, you'll love this.  Read on MacDuff.
第286条评论: Might be the defining trilogy of the 2000's, its that good.  Had me thinking of things i had never pondered in my life. I am indebted to the author.
第287条评论: This is an interesting book for those who enjoy complicated hard science speculation.  It gets deep in the weeds of concepts associated with quantum physics, dimensional math and the like. It's well done in that regard, but it could give the average reader a bad headache.  Additionally, this is really two, or maybe three different stories woven into one narrative.  You could easily break the three out and publish them separately.  They are all interesting but the melding doesn't necessarily add value and does create discontinuity.  All that being said, I'm glad I read the book, but I don't think i will continue with its successors.
第288条评论: Very original plot premise, carried out to it's logical (but rather difficult) conclusion by the end of the trilogy, Death's End. I am a physician, and not particularly technical. I didn't encounter any suspension-of-disbelief-destroying science or astronomy errors in this volume. Other, more technical types, may find some. Some of the plot twists in the second volume do seem to overlook some basics of orbital mechanics, but this didn't kill my enjoyment. Three-Body Problem struck me as deeply original, and the few developed characters were far better sketched than what one usually encounters in hard sci-fi novels.
第289条评论: Left me wondering for more. A truly wonderful story. Not sci-fi like other book but mixed with a little of this world.
第290条评论: I stayed up past midnight to keep reading this book. It is so wonderful to read and not quite like most other books.
第291条评论: Enjoyed the science explanations and the way the author plays with concepts discovered in the past century. The character development is also very good. There were a number of moments that I feel like I should have guessed, in hindsight, but couldn’t at the time. Mark of a good writer.
第292条评论: I heard this was going to be the new Netflix series, and that it was the first Chinese book to win the Hugo award. It was a tedious read. The characters were flat and their names were not memorable, so i could not keep track of which character was who. I spent a lot of time re-reading a multi-chapter lengthy physics description about unfolding protons, hoping there would be a big payoff. As soon as I got through all the tedious physics, it says "I hope you enjoyed book 1 - buy book 2 now". I vaguely considered getting book 2 (only because I had invested so much time re-reading passages that were putting me to sleep), then found the price of the books had jumped from $3 to $12 (because the Netflix rumor had gotten out).  On the bright side, trying to read this book helped me fall asleep easily.
第293条评论: Written from the viewpoint of a different culture, with an eye to a very disturbing piece of modern chinese history, comes a book that has, because of a unique setting, a thoroughly alien perspective. I am very interested in the next installment.
第294条评论: Put me on the edge of my seat and left my love for science thirsty for more! Each scientific topic discussed in the book had me running to my computer to look up what we already know about gravitational lensing, three body problems, and quantum mechanics. From the sci-fi elements, the thoughts of alien civilizations, and murder this book had my imagination reeling! A must read for space enthusiast!
第295条评论: I really enjoyed reading science fiction from a different cultural perspective. This does not come off as a political novel by any means, which is one way to perceive the frequent mentions of Chinese Cultural Revolution in many reviews. There are allusions made and parallels drawn, but it is first and foremost a science fiction novel about present-day first contact. The premise is unique and sets up the rest of the trilogy nicely. I am looking forward to reading "The Dark Forest".
第296条评论: Deep, very good. I think I would have given this a Five star if it had had a less bleak ending. You always wonder about censorship when you read these kind of books but I think the way this was written in that regard was very cleverly done, given I myself didn't know much about the craziness of the cultural revolution before I started reading.
第297条评论: The first half or so of this is really interesting. I enjoyed the setup, but once the main story became clear, it got hard to believe and raised a lot of questions that I'm not sure the author is going to be able to answer.  I went ahead and got the second book to see how it pans out, we'll see if things improve. Parts of the story feel very Vernor Vinge in terms of being far out ideas, but it doesn't feel as solidly realized as that writer.
第298条评论: Very interesting aliens chosen for our first contact. I hope reality is kinder to sentience than it was to these aliens!
第299条评论: I was concerned about what was going to be "missed in translation", but I have to say that it was a very creditable job, and the book is absolutely amazing.  Others from the Eastern Block may relate to this better, as they may be more adept at understanding how to read between the lines, why certain political topics have to be in there and why other items on the writer's agenda are rather dissimulated.
第300条评论: Starts off slow but quickly proved to be one of the most mind-expanding and memorable pieces of science fiction I’ve read. Conceptually brilliant ideas and thoughtful reflections on humanity. Can’t wait to read the second book!
第301条评论: three teenagers (age 14-19) in our house have read it, and they all love it!
第302条评论: The paradox of humanity's struggles between their magnificent creations and victims of time is the foundation this wonderful work of fiction tells its story. I never fully understood it until the end and still the struggle goes on. Loved the "Bugs" allegory.
第303条评论: Well y'all, this book is was real good. Sometimes a lil hard to follow the technical concepts, but then you start to get it and you're like "well dang I must be really smart or somethin'". Anyways, lookin forward to the next books, y'all.
第304条评论: Quality physics, compelling story, and told from a non-american point of view. Good read!  I was captivated from beginning to end.
第305条评论: Got this for my husband after he heard about it on a NPR program I believe.  He likes it and is reading it on his work trip.  The only complaint were the names are gender neutral so its hard to know who is male and female.
第306条评论: I was completely blown away by the authors imagination. The book is filled with interesting and entertaining ideas, and it didn't stop blowing my mind throughout the whole series. What a read!
第307条评论: What praise can I give that hasn't already been heaped upon this marvelous novel? The novel is both deeply though-provoking and very touching. The cultural elements are woven through the narrative masterfully. The translation is without reproach, conveying the tempo and style of the Chinese language in lyrical English prose. A masterpiece from start to finish.
第308条评论: Great book
第309条评论: Fantastic book.  Looking forward to reading the other books in this set.  The translation is high quality and the story itself is filled with many thought provoking concepts.  This one will leave you thinking long after putting it down.
第310条评论: Excellent!I loved this book.Such great story telling and mix of hard science reality and science fiction.Need to finish the rest of the books now
第311条评论: A new kind of sci-fi .  Given the parameters established  in this book it will be interesting to see how the trilogy develops.
第312条评论: Maybe ever. So insanely creative and believable all the way through. Have to start the next book now, can’t wait!
第313条评论: There are certain elements in the story that are simply too illogical and make it rather difficult to accept its premise. SPOILERS AHEAD so please discontinue reading this review in case you're serious about picking this book up. First of all, how does a fully trained physicist (a materials scientist but still someone who should have taken a course in mechanics) not immediately realise the nature of chaos in the game when its website's name is "3body.net"? Why does it take him so long to realise a chaotic system is very sensitive to initial conditions and therefore impossible to predict? Secondly, the alpha centauri system is quite stable and it's highly unlikely that proxima centauri (being some 13000 AU from the AB system barycenter) will ever participate in chaotic motion as described in the book. Even if it did, the system would be unstable enough to eject one or more stars before spending billions of years (giving sufficient time) for carbon based life forms to repeatedly form civilizations. The AB system should have long become red giants before any of that. Thirdly, how the hell is a civilization capable of "unfolding" a proton to create a supercomputer "etched on it" and not able to simply kick out two of their stars out of the system or simply propel their planet along with the closest star away from the other two? Absolutely ridiculous.
第314条评论: As far as the science-fiction element goes, this novel is quite original. But it is not great literature. The physics sci-fi and the setting in Communist china is intriguing and educational. Unfortunately, there are significant weaknesses. Some characters are not well developed and ring shallow. Their motivations are implausible. (Example, multiple physicists kill themselves because they experience unusual sensory events and question the validity of their science. This makes little psychological sense in the absence of actual psychopathology.) Group (cult-like) and institutional (e.g., of the secret service organizations of the world) behavior is often implausible. Overall, the author shows a good understanding of physics and recent Chinese history but a weak understanding of individual psychology and social causality.
第315条评论: The translator did an excellent job with the translation (well I assume he did since I don't know Chinese) but was an engaging story (all three books).  And you can see parallels to our current event.  I highly recommend this series.
第316条评论: Hard to imagine it was originally written in Mandarin. Pretty good book.  I need to write 4 more little words.
第317条评论: If you read only one scifi book this year then this one is recommended.  If you haven't read scifi for years (like me) then this will be a pleasant and interesting return to the genre. Wonderful premise of believable contact with other intelligent beings. Development of science and mathematics tracked in a video game. Interesting twist in how to respond should a contact occur. Explanation why contact let alone communication is almost impossible while presence of other intelligent life relatively certain. Are we bugs to more intelligent forms of life?  Worlds within worlds.
第318条评论: Well thought out.  The science of multiple suns acting on a planet is interesting and makes sense - if I remember my 4 college physic courses from 50 years ago.  I've thought the variable length of seasons in the Song of Ice and Fire would be explained by a two sun (or sun and short-cycle comet) system.  Also, interesting account of Cultural Revolution.It is not the easiest story to follow, but it all makes sense.
第319条评论: I liked this book and I look forward to the next two in the trilogy. I tend to favor books with strong, complex characters but the The Three Body Problem doesn't really fall into that category (although there's a police office who's noteworthy). It's really more technically and scientifically inclined  character based. But the book is unique and, considering that 90% of the genre are books that just re-tell stories found in other books, that in itself makes it worth reading.
第320条评论: Interesting premise.  Very different sort of plot than the usual space opera or whatever.  However, you can tell it was translated, and some things don't translate well, including a writer's rhythm and voice.  It's (to me) somewhat two dimensional.  The characters are mostly Chinese as well, which means I have a harder time knowing who's who, due to their names all blending together, and their life experiences are so completely alien to my western ways, it makes them a little harder to relate to.  If you can get past some of these obstacles, the plot is really interesting - different than just about anything else I've read in this genre.
第321条评论: This is hard sci-fi with a touch of the social upheaval that went through China due to the Cutural Revolution. That cultural war touched everyone, and every thing, in this book and it is fascinating to see how we define ourselves by the system we live in, even to the point of influencing how we approach science.  This is a book high in technical detail with vividly drawn, conflicted, characters. Most of the people in this book are damaged in some way and that damage plays a very critical part in their actions. This is not an easy read. Stick with it though, you'll be rewarded with a great story.
第322条评论: Very challenging book, but well worth the effort. It's dense and plodding at times, with many intricate and confusing plot lines to try to follow, but every time the author pulls the threads together he leaves you stunned and awestruck. I won't try to explain any of the plot because I don't want to deprive anyone of the whiplash mind bending effects of reading this book, but I will say that it is one of the best science fiction novels I've read in years.
第323条评论: This book starts slow and then suddenly explodes with weirdness and suspense. I consider myself a moderate science-fiction fan, and find this a good level of technicality or "hardness." The concepts are imaginative and fascinating. The story really makes you think about morality, civilization, enduring and responding to trauma/hardships, survival, and the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). Also, if you don't usually read Chinese authors, it is eye-opening to see how that country's history and culture have shaped the content.
第324条评论: This is a page turner. Unpredictable. An interesting mix of fantasy, astrophysics, cultural revelations, feminism, gaming ,and thoughts on alien cultures.
第325条评论: Starts off a bit slow, but definitely gets going. The rest of the series gets better and better. Death's End == mind blown. A tremendous conclusion to the series.  Still thinking about the book, and it's been a couple of months already since I finished reading it.  If you are a sci-fi fan, you would have  known and had read this book already, that's how good it is, so go read it!
第326条评论: This is an excellent book. It is almost emancipatory. Then comes the demise again. What impressed me the most was the obviously critical and yet objective stance towards speaking about the cultural revolution. In certain times, reading about the scientific theories inside, I was a bit lost. Nevertheless, I quite enjoyed how the book gave an inside view to the setting then. Spoiler; I personally loved the philosophy of humanity's disbelief in itself and seeking emancipation in extraterrestrial beings.
第327条评论: A fascinating glimpse into a style of fiction that's less familiar to Western audiences. The characters are a bit stylized in a way that makes me think I'm missing some context, but the plot is intriguing, and like all the best science fiction, it's as much commentary about the society it was written in as the science-fiction aspects.The translation is beautiful as well, preserving a style of prose that's just alien enough to the ear of the English-speaking reader to give you the sense of the original language, and the addition of footnotes to gloss much of the cultural context is very helpful.
第328条评论: I have been reading about big history , space time, gravity and quantum physics this work of science fiction is a wondrous climax to all that reading. Recommend to all trying to understand how our world works from the macro to the micro.
第329条评论: I have previously read the Chinese version and am in love with the series. In this first book, the aliens and mankind have never met face to face, yet great drama already took place. I'm reading this English translation to make sure the quality of translation before recommending it to my American friends, and the quality is shocking good! I can see how the way of presentation as well as some footnotes helping western readers understand the background while keep the original flavor. A must read for sci-fi lovers.
第330条评论: Im only halfway through the first book (The Three Body Problem) and I am purchasing the whole trilogy. Its excellent, well worth any invested reading if youre into scifi or even theoretical infotainment like Michio Kaku and Neil deGrasse Tyson. Its a true page turner, and I spent about 90 minutes hours a day ploughing through it, and always upset when Im out of time to read it for the day!
第331条评论: This is an alright read, with interesting sci-fi and physics exploration. I found myself skipping a lot of dialogue as it seemed overly wordy to me or simple, but the physics and ideas were interesting.
第332条评论: Much of what other "one star" criticisms say is true. Flat characters. Simplistic writing. The lack of plot sense is the worst disaster. Sometimes at the end of a spy thriller or mystery movie, we forgive some plot gaps for the characters or action sequences or ambience. Here there is little reason to forgive. I plowed through to the end and a few mysteries finally became clear, but there were too many retrospective, "Hey, that didn't make any sense." moments. I am an old hand at science fiction, multiple timelines and plot threads coming together at the last moment. SO, I doubt I "just didn't get it". It was mildly interesting to see some Chinese point of view on Mao's Cultural Revolution, which factors in. I didn't walk away thinking "Hmm, the Chinese take a very different approach to science fiction" though. Can't see how this even got nominated for any awards unless it was sheer political correctness.
第333条评论: Very interesting and accessible translation. The story is phenomenal, and imaginative. It definitely retains a taste of a different literary style than a standard American Science fiction book. I think I also learned a bit about the Chinese Cultural revolution from a different point of view.
第334条评论: Gotta say I don't get the hype around this novel. The starting premise, setting the sci-fi novel's roots during the cultural revolution and its aftermath, is rather brilliant. But then the reveal of the aliens, their plans, their real world, and their scientific capabilities ... is just not good. Likewise, the characters that support the alien conquest are "just so" characters, whose disaffection with life seems more convenient than convincing.A strong start, a very weak second half.
第335条评论: A bit dry and at times bleak, but The Three Body Problem will keep you turning those pages long into the night. If you like math, history and mystery, this book is for you.
第336条评论: Was a good sci-fi book, will continue to the next to see how the story unfolds.There where a few sections which were a bit tiresome however the storyline is refreshing and unique
第337条评论: I finally bought this story on audible and about half way through I became impatient to reach the end and bought a kindle copy as well. Now I intend to enjoy the sequels in this mixed media fashion, switching between listening and reading.
第338条评论: I’ve read a lot of science fiction novels.  This is the greatest science fiction novel of all time.  The plot, characters, culture, story telling, science, tension, and humanity are awesome and mind blowing.  Buy it! Read it slowly!  Love it!
第339条评论: This series, originally written in Chinese, makes the English speaking author think about things in a new light. The science is superb, the characters are different and therefore challenging and enlightening. I recommend this entire series if you like deep science fiction.
第340条评论: This book is alright. It is not an award winner for me. By the end it had dragged out the concept so much that I do not care what comes next. I guess the most damning thing is that I will not be reading the 2nd and 3.rd books.By far the best part of the book is the beginning recounting the cultural revolution - it was more crazy, weird, heart rending and enthralling than anything that follows.
第341条评论: Translated from Chinese. "The Three-Body Problem" provides a fascinating glimpse into another culture. Book One spans several decades starting with the Cultural Revolution (approx 1966) to modern day. Part mystery, part x-file, part action adventure. Can't say more without giving away twists.
第342条评论: A must read if you like science fiction. Even if you don't like science fiction, it's an excellent tale. I couldn't put it down. I can't wait to read the next one.
第343条评论: I barely managed to finish this book, hoping something would redeem it.  Nothing did.  I bought the next two books but did not read them, nor will I.  Character development was non existent and none of the characters were relatable.  Maybe reading these books in their native language would make them better, but I doubt it.  I would not venture to read this book or any other by this author.  It is as if I was reading a completely different book than other reviewers.  Sorry, but just not good.
第344条评论: This brilliantly imagined story is science fiction at its best—science, new worlds, societal conflict, interesting characters—all presented from an eastern philosophy. Highly recommended.
第345条评论: I've just finished reading this. Not at all what I expected but really quite remarkable in its ideas and execution. Mind-bending SF, refreshingly non-Western in style and setting. Recommended.
第346条评论: I had high hopes for this book, but it was just okay.  The historical parts were informative, and the most interesting to me.
第347条评论: Extremely well written, fascinating,  something fresh with interesting subjects allowing the reader to have a perception of past events and science seeing by other culture.
第348条评论: Ethereal images from this book stayed with me long after I read the last page.  A close friend also read it and came away with completely different memories. We have enjoyed discussing our different perspectives on a story that stretches our thinking of time and physics.
第349条评论: Awesome book. Translation from Chinese is very smooth and readable. If you like Sci Fi you will like this first book of the trilogy. Interesting take in the future and aliens.
第350条评论: Try to read this book in as few sittings as possible. It is complex and requires concentration, so popping into and out of reading makes it more challenging than necessary.
第351条评论: Some interesting concepts, but difficult to access due to translation challenges and cultural barriers. The characters were simply people that things happened to rather than agents driving the story forward. Not sure if that's a cultural difference or just something about this book, but it made it really difficult for me to enjoy.Manifold: Space by Stephen Baxter explores many of the same concepts, but does a much better job of it in my opinion.
第352条评论: I'm sorry but I gave up after only 10% of this (by my Kindle's reckoning). A clear and vivid depiction of the brutal, inhumane horror of totalitarian repression of the truth, but nary any science fiction I could see.
第353条评论: This is the most innovative science fiction I've read in a long time.  Although the storyline can be a bit hard to follow because it jumps around a bit, the overall effect is compelling and a bit haunting.  I am looking forward to reading the next books in the trilogy.If I have one nitpick it is that the Chinese names can be difficult to follow for Westerners, just as I imagine Western names are for Chinese readers.  The "cast of characters" at the front was incomplete.  It would be helpful to have all the characters included. A good reminder for all writers who seek to have an international audience.
第354条评论: This is one of the best sci-fi series I have ever read. It is complex and introduces a new view on when humans start to expand into the universe. It has truly alien perspective in the way it reflects the world of the 'others'. This has in-depth science, well-developed characters, political intrigue and lots of surprises. The only thing I struggled with were the Chinese names, which I had to write down on a little cheat sheet. I really wish they would add an appendix of the characters. The 'x-ray' in kindle doesn't cut it. The translation for this book is outstanding. You would never know it was from Chinese text. I'm an hour away from finishing the series (my treat this afternoon) and I am sad to end the series. This series is a meaningful contribution to the genre and will no doubt become a classic. I hope Mr. Liu keeps writing!
第355条评论: Mr. Liu has written a brilliant work. And this translation is excellent, including helpful historical and cultural notes. Having lived through the time of the Cultural Revolution, I found the plot twists involving people from that time and place fascinating. Also, it is wonderful to have the scene focussed not on the West, as usual, but out of China -- and why the hell not. It takes one a long time to plumb the depths of the scenario, but it is worth it. A very, very dark work, and frankly, scary as hell. But moving, too. I will look forward to reading the other two books in the Trilogy. Liu is not a new voice for China, but a welcome new voice and perspective here. I am truly impressed.
第356条评论: I knew nothing about this book when I picked it up, other than that a lot of people said it was great. And it was! It had been a while since I read a first-contact story, and I found this to be a really unique take. One thing that impressed me was how the author explained the physics in a way that was both interesting and easy to follow.Because the book is translated from Chinese, some of the phrasing and the author's voice might feel a little different—but in a really interesting way. It feels fresh. The book includes a note from Ken Liu about this, about the challenges of translation. I'd suggest reading that before the story. It made me enjoy it even more. This book was page-turning fun and I read it in about two days.
第357条评论: I was very pleasantly surprised with just how much I enjoyed this book. I had heard good reviews but I was concerned that a translated book from a different cultural background might be a difficult read. I was very wrong.I have "survival level" familiarity with mandarin. I could feel the pattern of that language under the translation but the reading was smooth and easy. There are plenty of footnotes for cultural references that enhance the book.But best of all, besides being well written/translated, the story is compelling and full of imagination. The author takes science fact, adds some science fantasy (discoverys not yet made, perhaps) and extrapolates them into a thoroughly original alien contact story. Saying much more about the originality and extrapolation would risk spoilers.Highly recommended!
第358条评论: Begins as an interesting enough book but quickly (and steadily) declines in quality.The plot mostly follows a nanotechnology developer named Wang - quite possibly the blandest main character I've ever encountered. There isn't a single thing I could tell you about Wang's personality after spending hundreds of pages with him. Other characters aren't much better. A cop character named Da Shi is a walking cliché -- he doesn't play by the rules, etc. The character Ye is the most interesting, but ultimately becomes something of a plot device while her motivations are explored only in the shallows.Most of it reads like a summary of another book. I wish it were another book. The characters simply move from scene to scene doing what the plot requires of them and speaking to each other in the exact same voice -- a voice they use to explain the plot to you as if you are in the room and they want to keep you informed but not acknowledge your presence. Similarly, all events are given the same narrative weight. Thus what should be a major twist or revelation is presented just as dryly as a description of our hero Wang walking to a different location in order to retrieve some plot device.Liu seems to have little idea of why people enjoy literature, art, or music, and in fact takes pitiful little jabs at non-scientific pursuits here and there in the novel which only confirm his ignorance. There is a math savant character in the book who (of course) listens to Bach because of the mathematical structure of his music. I suppose this is a valid reason to enjoy Bach, but I wonder: whose interpretation of Bach does the character enjoy most? Whose cadence? Whose nuance? There's much more to music than staff paper. There's also much more to literature than an outline.
第359条评论: As every other reviewer says, it's best to go into this without too many expectations.  For me, it was a bit like "Ender's Game" meets "Foundation" with lots of Chinese culture/history and science along the way.  (In fact, much more science than the average sci-fi novel I've read.)My only complaint is the book is so dense with plot that it comes at the expense of character development and narrative.  There is a LOT of expository dialogue and perhaps because of this the characters are somewhat 2D - memorable yes, but a bit cliche as well.  In spite of that, the novel succeeds very much on the scale of its world-building ambitions and I would highly recommend it to anyone with the patience to dive deep, deep, deep into a thoughtfully conceived (and meticulously translated!) book.
第360条评论: Highly interesting, with action and mysteries that’ll leave you questioning reality itself! One of my favorites, can’t wait to finish the series!
第361条评论: I didn't have a lot of expectation on a translated book because I've noticed in the past that there could be a lot of subtlety lost in the translation.  If this is the case for "The Three Body Problem" then I'd be fascinated to read the original Chinese version to get even more from it.  The overall story is of the first contact trope but is presented in a new and interesting way.  I found the overall story engaging and interesting while being able to overlook some of the more obvious items (for those who are familiar with math the title basically gives away a large portion of the story, but that's OK).  Overall a good book, worth a read.  I am now on to the second book in the series and have high hopes for it.
第362条评论: This story is a living lesson in physics and an epic tale. Two civilizations, each at risk of the other and a scope that soars across the universe. It’s entertaining, instructional and a glimpse of the (terrible) possible.
第363条评论: The pacing and structure for the chapters in this book jump around a bit jarringly, but the overall story is worth the minor bumps in the road. The end seemed filled with too much exposition that felt rushed and lacked finesse, even more so when I discovered there were two more parts to this story. With that in mind however, reading this as a stand-alone piece works quite well, and I'm hesitant to see if the sequels help or hinder the story as a whole. Worth the read in the end.
第364条评论: Good sci-fi from a Chinese author: one can't help but feel that good literature connects cultures!The story is a multi-layered variation on the alien invasion theme. As a longstanding sci-fi fan, I appreciated the complexities of the plot and the plausibility of the alternate world created by the author. But sometimes the narrative seems to slow down, perhaps because the complexity of the scientific solutions proposed requires lenghty explanations (which penalize the rythm)...All in all a very interesting read: will I pick up the second volume of the trilogy? I sure would like to know how it ends...
第365条评论: This was different. Part of the book had a fairly interesting story set in China during the Cultural Revolution and after. A lot of the book - maybe a third - is a description of someone playing an artsy, uninteresting video game - and I just groaned every time another one of those chapters started. Reading about someone playing a video game is about as interesting as hearing about someone's dreams and it's ridiculous to spend such a large chunk of the novel on these repetitive sequences. Like a lot of science fiction, the characters are thin and forgettable, with characters frequently acting in unrealistic ways. There are also huge story events covered in a page or two, especially at the end where it feels really rushed, so there are times where I was thinking "what? All that just happened in one page?"The Chinese setting, cold, lifeless characters and some interesting ideas helped give this book a different feel from other science fiction that I've read, but this was just okay to me.
第366条评论: This is my first exposure to Cixin Liu's work and it has made me an avid fan ready for more! This work of science fiction focuses on expanding what we really know of science and extrapolating into the future. Unlike most books about aliens, there is. no epic war of the world; rather the author builds a mysterious and ominous situation in which the reader, like the characters of the book, must figure out what is happening. To the author's merit, not only is it a great and entertaining work of science fiction, but it touches in many important issues of our times, like climate change and the true purpose of our existence, in a universe where we may or may not be alone. Even if you are not a science fiction fan, this work is beautifully crafted and makes a great read for all types.
第367条评论: While the science in this book was way beyond me, the author weaved in the summarized explanations so skillfully that I was able to grasp the concept…. After that, the mystery at the book’s core was gripping anc fast-paced.
第368条评论: I assume this book has been translated from Chinese. That is my only complaint.  It has a very interesting plot and a clever way of presenting it so the reader is never quite sure what is going on, but the writing style is a bit stilted and sometimes choppy.  It would be interested to be able to read the original and find out if it the author's writing or merely the translation.  In any case, for science fiction fans, it is definitely worth the read.  For others, it might be a bit technical to be really good.
第369条评论: A science fiction with great attempts to back up by scientific theories. Really amazing. Waiting to read the next book of the series.
第370条评论: It's rare that a science fiction book bores me, but this one does.  I'm halfway through this book, the first in the trilogy, and it has become dull.  And I think I can already see the ending.  The story is full of brilliant science and it's obviously well researched, but is repetitious plotting, with an obvious outcome, a thing in China?  I also started to watch "The Wandering Earth" on Netflix (or is it Amazon?), and I'm seeing amazing visuals, great science, a cool set of characters ... but how many times do these people need to wander back and forth across the landscape?  Cut from the chases, already.  I put that on pause about 2/3 of the way through and haven't gone back.
第371条评论: When I heard this was being made into a series by Netflix, and I had never even heard of it, I had to read it.  This book is some of the best science fiction I’ve ever read.  Ranks as high as Asimov, Clarke and Heinline.  Looking forward to the remaining books.
第372条评论: This story sticks with you for months. I enjoyed the mystery and the science as they were woven together into a masterpiece.
第373条评论: This book is brilliantly written. Cixin Liu has a way of enticing the wonder and awe of scientific imagination. Every word leads to the next with an air of curiosity and entertainment. I would recommend this book, not only to fans of science fiction, but to anyone who loves a great story. Looking forward to experiencing the rest of the trilogy.
第374条评论: Liked - the author's knowledge of physics and the translator's ability to translate to language understandable by the 'nonphysics' readers. Also liked the point of view - world/universe wide. Found it intriguing to find an 'old world' reference to quantum physics mixed with the author's imagination of where this would lead. Much to like about this series.
第375条评论: I don't have a science or physics background, mostly economics and political science, but was able to understand the story with how well it was written. The story was both moving and inspiring and had me thinking of realities beyond our own and gave me many moments to stop and ponder. It was a wonderful break from our everyday humdrum of politics, conflict, and surface sensationalism. I highly recommend his book and translation and definitely looking forward to reading the next two!
第376条评论: This is an excellent and thrilling science-fiction novel. As a science-fiction fan I was excited to read science-fiction from a Chinese author intended for Chinese audiences. However, I was disappointed by the carelessness of the translation, including poor grammar, redundancy, typographical errors, and poor copy editing.I would not let the spotty quality of the translation dissuade you from purchasing and enjoying this book. And it's certainly possible that important qualities of the translation are lost on me as someone who does not speak Chinese. However, the problems are a distraction and should have been corrected by now.
第377条评论: The story is quite long, and lacked enough character interest and sub-story to keep me in it at times.  This may have been because of a Chinese style of phrasing that peeked through the translation, because the Chinese setting was shallow and sometimes trite, or because the translation, while very good, didn't always flow perfectly with American English.  I found myself skimming pages to get through uninteresting parts.  The later descriptions of the alien world and its fantasy science were not convincing, sometimes seeming almost like a Bollywood version of what was intended to be serious science fiction: just not "real" enough for me to suspend my own reality and become immersed in the story.  I often found myself wishing the book would end so that I could get on with writing the review.  The author's biographical sketch at the end was sometimes more interesting than the book, but also suffered from excessive length.
第378条评论: A good read and a good translation  but I was distracted by much of the Chinese cultural references. The translator did a good job of limiting them but it made the plot harder for me to follow. I expect that when I re read the book (which I plan to do soon) that I  will enjoy it much more.
第379条评论: Amazingly good. The only minor complaint is the, for Chinese authors required, Kow Tow to Chinese officials and an implicit party line. It is not really annoying to a degree that it destroys the plot and the characters. I read the book while on a business trip and found it sufficiently interesting to keep me occupied on planes and in hotels
第380条评论: This book is as brilliant as the stars about which the author writes. With this collaboration, the author and the translator succeed in sharing both the story and transcendent love for all things, a love for not only the act of writing, but for the fortune of being.May we all learn from this book what we must learn, if humanity is to survive: love and respect for each other that is at least as great as our love of the mysterious beauty of the Universe that provides us with our needs for life.
第381条评论: I’m a sci-fi buff, unlike anything I’ve read before.  I love that the fair part of the book talks about the cultural revolution in China. The technical descriptions of things are a little boggling, but fascinating at the same time.
第382条评论: At times poetic and brilliantly paced, offering allusions to Chinese society and history, often in fashions that reflect elements of universal human nature. The points touching on advanced science and physics bear a ring of substance but are at times fictionalized. A satisfying conclusion leaving a reader in anticipation for the next work in the series.
第383条评论: I love that I have stumbled upon another book series in which the notion of physics (in this case some classical mechanics as well as a touch of  particle physics) plays a role in the reader's understanding and the development of the plot. I like seeing scientists be major characters for some reason.
第384条评论: Relies on a lot of pseudoscience and quasi-mysticism.  I couldn't finish reading it for shaking my head almost continuously.  Valuable insight into the Cultural Revolution, though.
第385条评论: US science fiction fans will long ago have noted that, as our country moves inexorably toward its and the world's destruction, science fiction has moved from Star Trek-type optimism to the ubiquitous dystopian futures that comprise contemporary sci-fi. I fail to finish most of these novels because they are far too oppressive and depressing, mostly because they are so realistic. The Three-Body Problem might be described as taking place in a dystopian present/recent past, but it is not overly oppressive. The story is compelling and the characters are complex, fascinating and relatable.
第386条评论: A old story retold....aliens are coming to destroy us. But this time the journey is bogged down with enough pseudo science that it collapses in epic fashion. Do you have a doctorate in physics? Then you may enjoy this book. Otherwise look elsewhere for coherent dialogue.  I'm not bothering with books 2 and 3.
第387条评论: An interesting read, full of some trippy twists and turns. As an American reader, it's difficult to say where the Chinese-ness of the author's style leaves off and his generally wild imagination pick up to deliver the feel of some of the book's passages and imagery. Just starting the second book now, so it's compelling enough to have me doing that.
第388条评论: Very imaginative and I enjoyed thinking about what I would read as I made my way through the book.  I kept asking msyelf though, 3 stars and a planet, doesnt that make it a four body problem??
第389条评论: Great book!  The plot line was unlike any I had read before, very original.
第390条评论: To me, this is best science fiction since the old masters Isaac Asimov and Arthur C Clarke. The author combines nicely solid scientific theories with human behaviour when facing most difficult challenge to mankind. Very highly recommended to friends of quality SF! Had to get the other two books of the trilogy.
第391条评论: This book is very well written, building depth in the characters and detail in the story line from beginning to end; filled with supremely fascinating ideas. The fact that the author is Chinese provides a very different perspective from much of the science fiction I have read, and I think this is part of the book’s appeal.
第392条评论: This is Science Fiction at its best.  Why did I wait so long to read it?  Can't wait to read books two and three in this trilogy.  Many kudos to the Transcriber for the English edition.  SUGGESTION:  Before reading the book, go to the end of the book and read "Authors Postscript for the American Edition".  It contains no spoilers and will give you a greater understanding of the author and respect for his work.  While you're back there, also read the Translators postscript and skim thru the footnotes.  A side benefit of this work is it gives an understanding of the Chinese Cultural Revolution -- about which most Americans are clueless.
第393条评论: Excellent narration with just enough historical and science facts.  Compelling story line as to what first contact might bring.  Benevolence or …
第394条评论: This was one of the best, most creative, sci fi novels I've ever experienced.  I cannot believe he came up with these ideas!  It puts the notion of alien invasion into a very real, and very unexpected, context.  Good historical and cultural views of China.  Great character building.  Quite intellectual at times.  The plot is unexpectedly realistic, and very surreal at times.  I mean, "Sophons"!  How did he come up with that?  Just read it.  I think you will like.
第395条评论: I have never read a book like this one. For me there are shades of Godzilla mixed with a lot of imaginative physics. I have no idea if the physics are even real or even possible but this book is very creative and well written. I will read the series because I hope that Earth and mankind win!
第396条评论: An interesting story, from a Chinese perspective on the world. If you like a lot of discussion of interplanetary physics it is interesting, that is. If you just like sci-fi action, it moves a bit slowly.
第397条评论: Characters are often treated as pawns in the plot. Things happen. X did this. Y did that. There are some exceptions such as when Wang is wondering if he is sane. However, this is not the norm.Some things do not make sense, like an epidemy of suicide among theoretical physicists because the world ceases to obey known rules of physics (in the real world, they would be ecstatic).Finally, the main issue is the author's ignorance of basic laws of physics, such as when vast quantities of information are transmitted instantaneously using quantum entanglement. I am a scientist but not a physicist. However, it is common knowledge that although entanglement is possible over very large distances, information cannot be transmitted. And it would be fine if the author acknowledges this limitation, and mention some new unknown physics that allows to bypass it, but he doesn't. Overall, if you are a scientist or engineer, you will be disappointed at the author's lack of basic science knowledge.
第398条评论: It is best read completely devoid of spoilers.  So there are none here.Read it before you watch the TV series.
第399条评论: I have heard that science fiction is more about the present than the future. While I see amazing creativity, beautiful story telling and craftsmanship in this novel, it is written from a perspective that I find neurotic and far from my context. It tells me little about the human condition that I live within.
第400条评论: This book is overly hyped. It takes a few interesting ideas and then strings them together in a very disappointing and immature plot.If the author had focused on the alternate world building, it would be a fascinating, new-age version of “Flatland”. Instead, it reads more like the teen-spy Alex Rider series (where the villains all try to create world-changing technologies to just kill British school children because of some childhood grievance) tried to mimic Ender’s Game.The book begins by feeling like a “science” book with some really deep philosophical questions, but the characters never end up exploring those questions and instead make baffling decisions to carry forward a mediocre story that ends up having quite a few plot holes. If you want a literary version of “Avengers: Infinity War” with less explosions, you have found it here.
第401条评论: I learned of this book in an article I was reading about Chinese Science Fiction. Cixin Liu was described as the Chinese Arthur C. Clarke in the article, and it mentioned his Remembrance of Earth's Past Trilogy specifically. Intrigued (as I've long been a fan of Clarke), I downloaded the book to my Kindle. The book is incredible and I see where the comparisons to Clarke come from. Like Clarke, Cixin Liu can take seemingly dense and insurmountable scientific concepts and explain them in such a way that you are able to fully grasp the concept. The writer (and the translator) did an excellent job in holding the reader's interest as, layer by layer, the mystery at the center of this volume is uncovered. It is the best Sci-Fi novel I've read in years. I look forward to many more works from Cixin Liu in the future.
第402条评论: It's a very gripping and unique story. It's kind of dark, in a weird Chinese sort of way. I'm amazed that the author was able to create such a *scientific* plot, without it coming off as dry, or unbelievable. It's the opposite, thoroughly intriguing from beginning to end.Edit: I've finished the whole series, and WOW. It's one of the most interesting and unique sci-fi's I've ever read. The series has a poetic fairy tale kind of feel, except longer and full of interesting technical details. The characters are incredible, and the plot events equally so. The only thing that stops this from being my favorite series of all time, is that like I said earlier it's a bit dark.
第403条评论: To begin: I have given this book to both lovers of sci-fi and those who usually avoid the genre with a wide berth; both have loved it.The Three-Body Problem begins in the Cultural Revolution, moving back and forth between different time periods. The plot builds very slowly, but very steadily; although one knows aliens are involved from the book's description, precisely how they are involved remains unclear for the majority of the book. Those who want fast-paced, action-movie-esque sci-fi will not be happy with this book. However, I -- and those to whom I have recommended it -- have found it thoroughly enjoyable. One scene within the Three-Body Problem is perhaps one of my favourite visuals of any sci-fi book I've read -- I was glad to read the book for it alone.Overall recommendation: read it, whether or not you enjoy sci-fi.
第404条评论: This book is well-reviewed and has won awards so I had high expectations for it... and it didn't live up to them. I'm not sure if it's because the cultural basis for the book is Chinese and I had a tough time connecting with it as a result or perhaps it is an artifact of the translation (which I'm sure it's excellent) or perhaps it's simply the author's style doesn't appeal to me, but I found it plodding and wooden in parts, abrupt and rushed in others. There is little in the way of character development and some of the dialogue and plotting seem amateurish.That said, there are a couple of interesting ideas in here that may be developed in the next volumes so Hope springs eternal.  And, of course, the fault may lie with the reader; perhaps I'm oblivious to the depth and nuance of the book. I'd like to think otherwise but I'm too old to completely discount the possibility.
第405条评论: Be forewarned. This is not light reading. But I liked it all the same. It definitely is not mainstream. The physics in the book, well, it is serious. Every aspect though I get the sense was well thought through and researched. I struggled to keep track of the Chinese character names. The bits of "game- time" in the book were excessive. It really could have been shorter. I am now reading "The Dark Forest". I'm hooked. Oh yeah, and there is not a single element of romance in the book. That is a bit bland.
第406条评论: Great story-telling and an interesting glimpse into Chinese events during the Cultural Revolution as a back-drop moving into present times.  Liu has some very interesting perspectives to add to the story based on his background in real-life sciences.  Having previously read “The Dark Forest” which is the second book of the trilogy, I went back to read the first, which provided me with more information and provides a great foundation for the second book.  I enjoyed delving into some of the abstract concepts of how intra-dimensions (beyond three-dimensional space and time).  This book expanded my thinking, a worthwhile read.
第407条评论: I heard about this book on the Tested podcast with Adam Savage.  I had little to no knowledge of the Chinese cultural revolution.  I also had never heard of the concept of the three body problem.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the topics it gave me to look into.I didn't think this was the best book I have ever read but I plan to order / preorder the next two entries in this series.  The first two thirds of the book were very intriguing and compelling, but some of the wrap up of the arcs were not as fun as the setup.
第408条评论: TLDR: pluses:  The story starts in the Cultural Revolution -- more Westerners should know about it.  Um, the author isn't just peddling swords and sorcery or sex and sine waves. Minuses: everything else?In a book that turns, ironically, on "dimensionality," the characters are barely even one dimensional.  The writing (or possibly the translation) is painful.  "The stream turned red.  I have nothing else to say." Really?  Or, on second thought, good, I am glad you don't. The motivations of the characters are like something from a kid's imagination of why grown ups do things.  Obviously, the author touched on something that people like, or they wouldn't buy it.  I like hard books, minimalist books, sci fi books, adventure books, literary novels and Chinese philosophy.  So this book could have wowed me in lots of categories.  Instead it was like reading about characters constructed from badly written resume narratives.Spoiler Alert Of the main character:Positions Held:  responsible for attempting to undermine all of human civilization by inviting aliens to conquer us 'cos the Cultural Revolution drove me mad.Significant Accomplishments:  murdered husband and kind boss.Job sought:  Global quislingRepresentative Prose Sample: you don't want to read it.Take this review with a grain of salt. Lots of smart people obviously liked it but I cannot for the life of me figure out why?
第409条评论: I had to read some of the science twice to make sure I understood it.  From the world view of the characters (and, presumably, the author) you can tell that they are Chinese, and still to some extent suffering from the devastation of the Cultural Revolution.  This difference in perspective is an eye opener, and much different, I think, from Western scifi.  It's also very much 21st century scifi, and markedly different from 20th century scifi.  Well worth reading if you want to know what other people are doing.
第410条评论: The Three-Body Problem by Liu XixinThis Chinese sci-fi story is named for a problem in physics and classical mechanics.  It says, taking initial data specifying position, mass and velocity of three bodies at t particular point in time, predictions of their motion or direction can be made.  The tale is told in familiar neighborhoods around Tsinghua University and Beijing as well as a remote Mongolian observatory called Red Coast.It encompasses time from the Cultural Revolution to three hundred years into the future.  A tough cop, Da Shi and scientist, Wang Miao, seek to solve the problem of top scientists committing suicide once they begin playing the Three-Body Game simulation. The game attempts to predict the moment of the destruction of an alien culture, Trisolaris, as an integral philosophy of a cult of the aliens on earth.
第411条评论: Starts slowly, is more of a fantasy than hard SF, with barely-drawn characters... But it stands its own.
第412条评论: Woah. This is one of the most complex, intense sci-fi novels I have ever read. TBP takes a deep dive into particle physics, framing its analysis of elementary science both within and outside of the surreal world of the Three Body video game. We are plunged into an expansive mystery which weaves questions about the fundamental fabric of matter through a morally grey tapestry, and we emerge hanging on a cliff edge as the whole world opens up before us. One book down, two to go. I’ll be holding my breath through this series.
第413条评论: This really should be a 5 star sci-fi novel. Everything about this book is 5 stars, except the ending. The ending is so abrupt, I was wondering if perhaps a few pages were missing. But nothing was missing. I felt cheated, because I felt there was really no other choice now but to buy the 2nd volume. But as I said, everything else is brilliant, intelligent and well-written science fiction. I do recommend this novel. Just be aware, you have to buy the next volume as well, otherwise you may feel let down.
第414条评论: This is a great science fiction novel. The writer is obviously very educated and imaginative. I liked how he blends science with social forces (Chinese communism) to slowly unfold a dystopia in the making. This is not your basic shallow thriller-type book; it is more demanding and disturbing than that. Think Stanislaw Lem with more entertainment. The ending of this novel left me wanting to read the sequels, but I'll need some time to build up my energy.
第415条评论: Is extinction of other species acceptable if it means survival of our own? Would that truly be survival? First of a series this book do not answer the questions, but establishes the context thoroughly, I hope the characters are further developed in the rest of the seriesthe cultural differences are apparent in the book and lend a particularly interesting setup, perceptibly different than typical west based social sci fi. Even so, in the end, individuals and their actions are what impacts the story.It worth noting the subtle poetry in several paragraphs and quotations, delightfully western.
第416条评论: I need to decide now if i want to read the rest. I never fell in love with a character, and there were very many. However, the story line and plot was very intriguing. I got confused in places with the (Pseudo)science, but i just read those kind of fast.
第417条评论: This book is not your usual science fiction nor a fast moving mystery with expected endings.  Its origin is in another culture and a different language although the english translation is impeccable and the description and references from within that foreign culture relevant to the development of the main story.  The story development is slow paced in a brick by brick manner with much detail to background events and physical locations and the use of astronomical and computer-related references as well as the social and political framework.  It is entertaining, exhausting and intellectually challenging and all in all quite a change from the mundane stuff churned out by many of our "best selling" authors.  Definitely a worthwhile read.
第418条评论: Enjoyed it overall. Combines realistic approaches to science with fantastical sci-fi. Most intriguing (and important) part of the book is the analysis of the Chinese Cultural Revolution and its approaches to science. However, much of the effects of this plot are dropped at the end. I intend to read the rest of the series later. However, the somewhat idiosyncratic end to this volume did not convince me that I needed to pursue the other books immediately.
第419条评论: The Three-Body Problem is a sci-fi story heavy on concept with just enough character construction and mystery to keep the average reader (myself) interested. I enjoyed how the author weaved a Chinese perspective of the Cultural Revolution and its effect on the Chinese people in this story. There is a lot of science justification in this novel that may be a slog for some readers...and speculative science that may confuse or misinform someone with little or no science education in their background.
第420条评论: The Three-Body Problem does what good SciFi should do -- probe possible implications of today's science.As such, this is a book well worth reading -- even more so because it was written in China.But, perhaps, there are things lost in translation.This is not a 'page turner', and that prevents me from giving it 5-stars.But it is a significant book -- both culturally and intellectually.I wish my language skills permitted me to read it in its original text.I'll bet that would have elicited the fifth star.
第421条评论: It is a very original book. The historical background is important for the plot, and I learned a little bit about the history of China and the Cultural Revolution as a bonus. The existence conditions of the Trisolarans are quite interesting and original. This is a hard science fiction book. The pace is slow at times, but in general it flows well and captures the reader's attention.
第422条评论: The Three Body Problem and the sequel The Dark Forest represent years of thinking on the part of the author. The books remind me of the excitement of science fiction from the fifties and early sixties. That isn't to disparage works after that time, just trying to refer to a certain quality of engagement peculiar to that time.I wish I could read it in Mandarin. There is a conversation going on here about China happening on every level.
第423条评论: Cixin Liu takes the reader on a fascination journey from the past to the near future.  His simple but vivid writing style brings alive the xenophobic excesses of the cultural revolution as well as the somber future we might face as we make our presence known in the cosmos.
第424条评论: I had doubts in the first part.  But after a few chapters it came through with a good convoluted plot and characterization; with few errors.
第425条评论: I enjoyed this start to finish.  It's imaginative and cleverly constructed.  I'm looking forward to the next volume.  I recommend it to everyone who likes SF.I have read all three now.  This is good work.  Enjoy them
第426条评论: This came very highly recommended by people at the opposite ends of my literary group: the English professors and the geeks.  I found it ultimately kind of *meh*.  The story is very slow to start, and the translation notes were helpful but also interrupted the flow for me.  The English professors were very impressed by the "scientific accuracy" in the novel, the geeks loved the complexity of the characters and plot twists.  I think both are over rated.
第427条评论: Top notch science fiction one of the best around. Only think I didn't like was the characters were not as fleshed out or centred around as I might have liked but that seems to be a common issue among the best science fiction world builders. eg. Seveneves.  That aside its simply amazing that this was translated from another language and a culture that is very different from ours and still reads great.
第428条评论: I usually find translated books difficult to read.  This was a great translation and he included some footnotes for clarity.  I finished it in just a couple evenings.  Looking forward to reading the next 2 books in the series.
第429条评论: The book took a bit to get rolling and some knowledge of Chinese history is helpful in setting the stage. There are some astonishing "o the mouth" moments that had me re-reading passages they were so original and a pleasure to read. Kudos to the excellent translation. I enjoy Western science fiction and was curious how the genre plays out from a Chinese perspective. All good and will be diving into "The Dark Forest" next.
第430条评论: I found myself eager to get through this... because it was so boring.  As others have pointed out, it's *extremely* technical and long-winded when it comes to the science that's laid out.  This bogs everything down throughout most of the story.  Toward the end the pace finally picks up a bit, but even this final stanza is waylaid by continuous descriptions of failed experiments.  Any drama and progress in the story-telling keep getting tripped up by all the science.  It's probably not a coincidence that the character with the most interesting personality isn't a scientist at all.There are going to be a lot of disappointed readers who are expecting a more interesting, engrossing read based on the high rating the book has received.  But this one's for the real "nerds" and those fascinated by extreme technical detail.  It wasn't for me.
第431条评论: Very good read, highly original concept.  Fans of classic sci-fi are sure to enjoy this novel.
第432条评论: It might just be me-which seems plausible since this book has been so heavily lauded and awarded-but I was not impressed. Although aspects of the science part were interesting (though largely undeveloped), the fiction was not. The dialogue is awkward and unrealistic and most of the character aren't even two-dimensional. Finally, the premise of the story is so ridiculous that the author even seems to acknowledge it in a passage late in the novel: "The most surprising aspect of the Earth-Trisolaris Movement was that so many people had abandoned all hope in human civilization, hated and were willing to betray their own species, and even cherished as their highest ideal the elimination of the entire human race, including themselves and their children." I guess it could be called surprising, but absurd and wholly unbelievable seem like better descriptors. But, like I said, maybe it's just me.
第433条评论: Humanity faces an alien pre-invasion on the subatomic level, the purpose of which is to destroy humankind’s belief in science and thus hamper its scientific advancement. In this way, the aliens hope their fleet will arrive on Earth in the distant future with a significant technological advantage and win their civilization’s battle for survival.Award-winning Chinese author Cixin Liu has constructed a unique kind of alien invasion tale that has the added appeal of giving American readers some insights into recent Chinese history, namely the effects of the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) on scientific thought. Translator Ken Lui, himself an award-winning sci-fi author, provides just enough helpful footnotes along the way to ground American readers in what might otherwise be obscure references in the novel. This is the first of a four-volume series. Also, at this writing, Netflix has a serialization in the works.The story begins at the start of the Cultural Revolution when the Red Guard launch an assault on intellectuals of all sorts. Ye Wenjie, an astrophysics graduate of Tsinghua University (incidentally, Xi Jinping’s alma mater), watches her father, a physics professors, beaten to death. She’s branded a traitor and eventually ends up working at Red Coast base. Eventually, she learns the real purpose of Red Coast, the search for and contact with extraterrestrial life. Brilliant, she discovers a way to slingshot a message through the Sun into space, one reflecting her hatred of humanity that invites invasion and extermination.Eventually, she’s repatriated, assumes a post as a professor and becomes involved in a radical ecological movement that is also antispeciesist. Of like mind, she tells the leader, billionaire American Mike Evans, about Red Coast and the message. He converts an oil tanker he names Judgement Day into an evasive, floating bearer of a radio telescope that sends and receives a message from the alien world that received Ye’s message, Trisolaris. A cult (with warring factions within it) forms around this idea of an invasion to purge the world of offending humankind. To win over the best and brightest minds to the quest, the factions develop a mysterious interactive game, which as you play it reveals aspects of the Trisolaran world.World leaders aren’t oblivious to what’s transpiring and they have joined in a cooperative effort to thwart the aliens and their Earthbound supporters. Enter various scientific and military figures, among them hardedge police detective Shi Qiang and nano scientist Wang Miao. Miao becomes entranced by the game, Three-Body Problem, and through it acquaints himself, and readers, with Trisolaris’ turbulent history caused by its three suns and civilizations struggle to survive and advance. He teams with the world powers to prepare future Earth to combat the Trisolarans. He infiltrates the Earth-Trisolaris Organization (ETO) and readers learn the method of pre-invasion, subatomic supercomputers inserted into protons, called sophons, that will invade Earth’s particle accelerators, confuse scientists, lead scientists to commit suicide, and undermine the world’s belief in its sciences; a phenomena that speaks to current affairs in the U.S. and other countries.Whether you are an avid sci-fi enthusiast, or a reader looking for something different and challenging, you’ll not want to pass over The Three-Body Problem.
第434条评论: Stumbled on to this book randomly and was intrigued at the prospect of sampling Chinese sci-fi. Best decision I ever took. This is science fiction in its purest, best form. It is highly reminiscent of Asimov, Clarke and Crichton. It's all about the author trying to tell you a brilliant story rather than trying to woo you with his literary prowess. Can't wait to read the next 2 books!
第435条评论: This was a very thought-provoking book.  I love how it uses concepts from mathematics and computer science as fascinating plot points.  Really good science fiction gives you some memorable concepts that are tied to science that stick with you long after you hit the last page, and this book definitely does that.
第436条评论: I heard the hype around this book so thought I'd give it a go. The concept is more interesting than the execution and it feels like many hollywood movies: the kernel of a good idea stretched way longer than it has any right to be. I both applaud and sigh at the many scientific principles brought into the story. Applause for having the depth to discuss such topics, but sighs because the story could be written without pretty much all of these details and lose nothing (apart from many pages). It's written with an open-ended conclusion which generally I prefer but my fear is we might see a sequel (or worse, many sequels). Authors such as Philip K. Dick show how to take a single good idea and explore it in the short-story format, which is all this book should have been.
第437条评论: This is the best science fiction book I have read in decades. It is like the science fiction when I was young and believe me I am no longer young. This book actually has Science !  Physics ! Nanotechnology ! String Theory ( sort of ) ! All kinds of great stuff you rarely run into any more. Great book.
第438条评论: Very close to a 5 star rating. The science is serious and the characters are well drawn. Several devices in the story are quite innovative. Highly recommend, with kudos to both the author and translator. The English is fluid and readable but maintains a rhythm and cadence that feels very Chinese.
第439条评论: Lots of very interesting ideas explored, woven from a sci-fi master. One thing to take into consideration is that it is a translated work. This means that the translation will depend upon the translator, not necessarily reflecting the true words/intentions of the author. Overall though the ideas and imagination are worth the read. I won't go into any details of the story but I will say that the story revolves around humanity (both its ugly and beautiful sides).
第440条评论: Not something I would normally read but I could not stop reading.  Can’t wait to finish the series.  Would definitely recommend.
第441条评论: Layers upon layers upon layers.  There is much that is mentioned in the first 2/3rds of the book that suggest there is more going on, but you can’t guess what that is. In part because the author writes a compelling story and in part because you just aren’t sure where he is going. This is an outstanding read.
第442条评论: It is refreshing reading science fiction from an Asian context following an interesting and novel plot line. However, the book slides between technical babbling to interesting mystery scenes, and philosophical standpoints in a random annoying manner. Moreover, this is an obvious stretch of a single book into a trilogy, where some sections are superficially bloated and others surprisingly brief. OK for those who like the science more than the fiction in science fiction.
第443条评论: It's really that simple: this is not good reading.  Oh sure, the author is brilliant and his knowledge of physics and astronomy is vast but that doesn't mean he's a good fiction writer.  It's like if Einstein wrote a novel but it was a dud.  Would people have the courage to say that?  I finished the book mostly because I'm a cheapskate and since I bought it.... Well, you understand.  Suffice to say, I won't be purchasing the next 2 books.There is one thing redeeming this book:  the references to the Cultural Revolution and to modern day eco-zealots show how easily people slip into absolutes, excesses, intolerance and even violence.
第444条评论: Interesting look and the People's Revolution from someone inside of it.  The science has an air of authority, and the storyline is interesting, though probably appealing mostly to serious sci-fi readers or possibly gamers.  An easy read, the pages go by quickly.
第445条评论: I enjoyed reading this book.  Interesting story and well-written.  Remaining words are because I am obligated to to to to.
第446条评论: Not the usual sci-fi rogues in space, but a really good read with fully developed characters.  A must read for true sci-fi fans.
第447条评论: This was one of the most surprising novels I've read. A unique work of science fiction that also includes a good amount of science. I highly recommend.
第448条评论: Brilliant. A little prodding at times. Characters not well developed.Translation wooden in many places. But so clever and such a great story.
第449条评论: Science fiction is all about exploring the edge of what is possible. This book does that and more. Its also a great way to learn about the Chinese cultural revolution from the Chinese perspective. I'm looking forward to reading the next two books in the series.
第450条评论: Not sure why this book is so highly prized. I realize that there aren't many science fiction authors in China that have been able to reach an international audience. I also realize that this book was translated into English and that can have an impact on the writing. I feel like this book was showcased because of the novelty of a new international SF writer rather than the quality of the story and its characters.
第451条评论: Well.It's the book you need rather than the book you want. I wanted a how to guide on organizing some happy times with me and two nubile young ladies. Instead, I got a compelling science fiction novel by the Chinese Neal Stephenson.Not bad 8-)
第452条评论: Science and Fiction presented in a very creative and informative premise, pacing, and translation. Fascinating concepts. Each act keeps you engaged with answers to mysteries while begging new questions that keep you from putting the book down. The translation definitely gives an insight to the mindset of the writer and his culture as a supplementary layer of interest.I'll surely be continuing the series and reading the author's back catalog. Double thumbs up.
第453条评论: So, I'm a crass materialist. This book isn't worth $9.99. Maybe $4.58. It's slow, and a bit tedious at times. Has a definite Chinese flavor, which is interesting. I like reading translations of Chinese novels. There are a couple of good twists, but I won't spoil them for other readers. Mostly though, it isn't very interesting.I recommend AfroSF for an more interesting expression of SciFi ideas that are definitely not American or British. Science Fiction by African writers.
第454条评论: The Three Body Problem is a masterful work of science fiction. After receiving a message from another extraterrestrial civilization not to reply to said message Ye does anyway. The Earth is doomed and humans aren’t capable of redemption. I look forward to volume 2.
第455条评论: It is an slow evolving novel.  There are some smart ideas and others not well presented. It is not a book for my top list.
第456条评论: So fresh and such an intriguing read.  I am an artist, know next to nothing about astrophysics or advanced theoretical theories or any other advanced scientific anything!...but this book still sucked me in and the author is such a great writer that even I could understand most of the theories and her ability to understand and write about the human emotion is stunning in the development of her characters.
第457条评论: Definitely worth the read for any fan of sci-fi. Compelling mystery that drives the story and a very memorable ending.
第458条评论: Imaginative plot. Character development subordinated to the plot, which extends over several decades. The author has a distinctive Chinese perspective on things that is very illuminating and ingenious. Using 30,000,000 soldiers carrying black and white flags to emulate the 1's and 0's of a digital computer was interesting. Was somewhat disappointed in the end, but this turns out to be the first book of a trilogy. Would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in SF books.
第459条评论: A remarkable imaginative picture of a universe beyond our knowledge.An added plus is the insight into Chinese culture.Character portrayal and development is the weakness
第460条评论: I found this story very complex and steeped in a bit of history of the People's Republic of China. That made it a bit of a difficult read but as the story slowly progressed I became quite engrossed in it. I can say I'm very interested to read the sequel to this story.
第461条评论: Very imaginative conception of other worlds and civilizations, but sometimes technology wins out over characterization.
第462条评论: My favorite scifi book in a long time. It's more concept driven than story driven so if you like stories about people see in a sci-fi setting, maybe it's not for you. This is a story about scifi with people as a backdrop
第463条评论: The story line was original and interesting but the character development was very lacking.  Little attempt was made to describe the impact of major tragic events on character's thought and emotion or how it drove their actions.  It may be due to cultural differences.  On the other hand, the author takes an enormous amount of time describing computer systems and code.  Much of the discussion is repetitive and slows the story down.  The narration is mostly good but detective in the story is made to sound like a crusty big city american cop and it seems out of place for a story set in China.
第464条评论: I found the storyline often hard to follow and, ultimately, not terribly satisfying. I’m not someone who reads a lot of sci-fi/fantasy but do like some of the classics (Dune, Lord of the Rings, etc.). This didn’t grab me enough to want to read the rest of the series.
第465条评论: This novel and its sequel "the dark forest" explore a lot of new territory, and for me the Chinese cultural elements and viewpoint were especially delightful.  I couldn't stop reading it.  I highly recommend it.  My only ding is that some plot developments are overly-telegraphed, but I suspect that was an intentional element rather than an accident.
第466条评论: Wow. I could not put this book down, I read it in less than a week and have been amazed at the scientific representations presented in the book. From physics, psychology, cosmology through to virtual reality and epic string theory concepts - this book has so much in it.However, through all of this it presents both heartfelt stories of individual struggle and tragedy mixed with global scale conspiracy and implications for generations ahead on Earth.Amazing
第467条评论: Not an easy read for me since I'm not a science minded person but the concepts related to extraterrestrial life kept me interested.
第468条评论: I liked the setting during the cultural revolution and post -cultural revolution China. I also enjoyed the premise of communicating with another civilization using a video gaming format. The science was well explained and sensible. The alien civilization's adaption to its environment was creative and possibly even plausible. Combining all of this with the autocratic hierarchical Chinese political system, the eastern culture, and several colorful characters made this a very interesting book.
第469条评论: I strongly recommend this book. It's a breath of fresh air in a genre that too often retreads the same old tropes. However, it does suffer from some pacing issues, and the quality of the prose (or is it the translation?) varies at times. When it's good, it's really good!
第470条评论: I really wanted to like this book.  I went in knowing little and was still disappointed.  I appreciate learning about Chinese points of view of various topics and sci-fi in general.  However, the story just never got off the ground and the final act was less than fulfilling.
第471条评论: I’m an avid reader and have read science fiction, fantasy, horror and others for decades. This book blew me away which is not an easy feat. Incredible concept, pacing and delivery. Absolutely brilliant and just entered my top ten.
第472条评论: The author presents an interesting premise, and it is a well written story, however it takes some time to get used to the slight strangeness of the dialogue and descriptions which arises from the translation / language difference.
第473条评论: Very interesting views on China especially Mao's revolution as a back story. Loved the science and math—it only enhanced the plot, didn’t bog it down. Plus the issues brought up about alien threat.
第474条评论: Was really looking forward to reading thus book but found the storyline, although interesting, very long and drawn out.  Way too much backstory through too many convolutions to get to the actual current plot line.  After reading the whole book you are really only set up for the story to begin.  Writing and historical background is in depth and kept me engaged.
第475条评论: Fantastic SF. If you like Vernor Vinge, get this. Other great reviews here do more justice to the book than I can, but all I'll say is that this is a beautifully imagined world you enter into, with complexity that grows and grows across the two books that have been translated so far. Really looking forward to the third one...
第476条评论: The translator did a fine job of allowing the story and culture to remain Chinese, and I found this to be an amazingly good science fiction book. I am very impressedwith the authors ability to twine real and imaginary science without any obvious separation. Looking forward to the second book.
第477条评论: This made me wish I could read Chinese. There is obviously a strong influence from the translator, as he explains, balance between the Chinese writing style and the English language was the most difficult to do.  I think he did great and made it really enjoyable.The story is pretty wild and a great read for nerds. Now to read the other two.Have fun!!
第478条评论: After abandoning this novel because of a slow start, I resumed reading after a lull in my reading list. Wow, I'm glad I did. The backstory is detailed, but it does create depth that the reader will appreciate later on. Cixin's imagination is jaw-dropping, and the story becomes addictive and fascinating. One of the best books I've read in a long time. Thank you, Cixin!
第479条评论: Good story. Unique and well worth reading.
第480条评论: Best sci-fi book I’ve read since Ender’s Game (which was a loooong time ago). Kept me guessing until the end. Loved being immersed into the Chinese culture style of writing. Really loved how the author dives headfirst into big philosophical questions.
第481条评论: This book is as much about society as it is about science. The science is beautiful and awesome (and I use this word in its actual sense), while society is almost a blemish on the science. In the process of telling this story though, the author tells some deep truths about culture. This is the sort of stuff science fiction should explore.
第482条评论: I was repeatedly mind blown throughout the entire read. One of the most surprising books I've ever read. Liu did something amazing here.
第483条评论: This book started so promisingly I was ready to rant and rave about it. A book that doesn't just tell a sci fi story, but talks of real stuff like the Chinese Revolution, and gives glimpses of Chinese culture? Cool! Scientists killing themselves because they found the laws of nature may be fundamentally so chaotic that any scientific pursuit is doomed? Sweet! A VR videogame where instead of mindlessly blasting and killing, you follow an alien civilization on a planet with 3 suns where even predicting the next sunrise is impossible? Fun! And then... it all goes downhill from there. Secret societies of ultra wealthy people who want humanity destroyed by an alien invasion? Yeah right. Messages between humans and aliens in complete sentences, complete with sociological nuances without even knowing each other's languages let alone culture and psychology? Give me a break! Aliens devising an invasion strategy based on psychological manipulation of humans they have never met and know practically nothing about? About as likely as me sprouting an extra head. I gave up at the sentient proton. Yes, you read right. The aliens make a sentient photon called "sophon". That killed it for me. Mercifully the book ends fairly soon after that, because as you know, it's a trilogy of books so they need to get going with the next book. Which I will not read because things can only get more preposterous after that. It's a shame, it could have been a good book, and the writing is overall good, but even good writing can't save ridiculous plots. One more example of something overhyped only by virtue of being the first sci fi book from China. If you want a good book from a Chinese author, read Ted Chiang's collection of short stories "Stories of Your Life and Others", they are fantastic.
第484条评论: This trilogy has been on my list for some time. After completing The Three-Body Problem, I am ready to start The Dark Forest. Liu Cixin’s writing is dramatic but approachable. The fictional aspects of the story seem plausible. The complex topics like physics are well explained. I’m anxious to hear what happens to Ye. If you like sci-fi with proper explanation around the science, The Three-Body Problem will not disappoint.
第485条评论: Sometimes a book or a movie can be a disappointing experience when it doesn't fully live up to expectations. Three-Body is mostly entertaining, decent sci-fi but nothing exceptional. There may have been some artistry lost in translation because the prose is somewhat stiff and a bit mechanical.  I don't usually read literature from China, so there was some added interest because it's a different historical and cultural perspective, but nothing truly  revelatory. I enjoyed it but I'm not compelled to get to the next book. Maybe I will, eventually.  Some really cool ideas, characters tend to be employed as catalysts for plot movement rather than realistic people. I thought the massive organic computer was a fun, imaginative way to describe how computers function.
第486条评论: I enjoyed the novel as science fiction, but my favorite part of reading it was its sections set during the cultural revolution.  It was a shock to me that a book coming out of the PRC could be so frank about the brutality, paranoia, and insanity of that dark chapter of Chinese history.  It doesn't read like a "political novel" in which the author clumsily puppets characters in a contrived plot for the purpose of exposing or condemning history.  Instead, the narrative built within that time period is deeply rooted in several characters who are compelling enough to make them the focus, even in the midst of the horrors they are enduring.  As the story moves forward, the contrast between that fanatical but impoverished past and the recognizably affluent and relatively liberal present is striking.
第487条评论: This book pulls you in with tantalizing high-concept science fiction, but looses its attraction amongst bad writing and worse dialogue. At times I actually googled other reviews because I thought perhaps elements of the book were intended as farcical. Certainly, most of the activity inside the game world borders on comedy, and the black and white nature of the characters and their morals reads more like a fairy tale. I can’t understand for the life of me why this has received so many awards - the creativity is exceptional, but the writing is exceptionally bad. I hope the Netflix series will be better.
第488条评论: 3.5 stars, an enjoyable read.  It's a unique take on sci-fi and alien encounters.  Learning a little about the Chinese Cultural Revolution was a nice addition.  Definitely will read the rest of the series.
第489条评论: One of the most unique takes on impending alien infestation I’ve ever read. Part of a trio of books Liu’s novel explores how a society prepares for a long-off inevitability. Readers should have a high tolerance for the wonders of physics and philosophy to fully embrace this singular work.
第490条评论: i bought the book because the title is a reference to a well known math problem - this was not my usual read.  i enjoyed the book thoroughly, and i appreciated that the translated copy includes many footnotes for cultural references that an english reader might otherwise miss.
第491条评论: Ya' know . . . I'd still recommend any sci-fi fan read this book, despite its problems.  It really offers a totally different take on the ol' "alien invasion" trope.  Along the way it presents some stunningly original ideas and imagery, stuff that really bowled me over.  The problems are largely literary.  I know translation is a pain, and I know Ken Liu is a successful writer in his own right (in English), but there were places where the translation was too literal.  Lots of weird choppy sentences, some very odd turns of phrases, etc.  (This is beyond what I might consider Chinese colloquialisms, which I think are actually handled well.)  The biggest problem, however, is the shallow characterization.  Da Shi is the only character who deserves that title.  Everybody else (well, maybe not Ye Wenjie) is just a tool for advancing the plot.  Dialog is largely wooden.  The science suffers from over-exposition; the people, under-exposition.  But it's still an intriguing read because of its conceptual originality.  In the right hands this material could become a much better movie (or mini-series) than it is a novel.  It remains to be seen if the one that has already been filmed is up to the task.
第492条评论: The book was a bit hard to get into at first. I think that was because the writing logic in the Chinese language is just different in English and the Chinese-to-English translator/writer admitted to such. However, after a while I got into it just fine and was amazed at the imaginative description of the multiple dimensions at the quantum level that the original author creatively presented.
第493条评论: I admit that some of the more stilted and unimersive passages may have been degraded in translation, but nonetheless I found myself furrowing my brow  and wanting to put it down.Yet I finished the book because, while seasoned sci-fi readers will recognize many of the ideas, others were new to me. The scientific plausibility of these newer ideas was minimal, yet they were entertaining in a pulpy way, as with much sci-fi.
第494条评论: "The Three Body Problem", "The Dark Forest", "Death's End"An excellent series with an absolute minimum of scientific errors. Sure some of the science is in the "maybe" category but it comes from the top scientists working today. And a couple of the errors were not discovered until after he wrote the books so they were not incorrect at the time, just speculative.Also recommended is his first collection of short stories "The Wandering Earth".But forget "Ball Lightning" as it is a collection of pseudo science clap trap. If I'd read this book first, I'd not have purchased and read any of his other books.
第495条评论: This is the kind of fiction that gives Science Fiction a bad name. It's hard science fiction, it's complex, it's hard to wrap your head around. With a few exceptions, the characters are weakly drawn and interchangeable, and narrative genius is lacking.However, the mind of Cixin Liu is truly a thing of wonder. There are startling revelations and explanations within, and if you can let go of the reasons you read Chekov or Hemingway or Chabon and simply be dazzled by Liu's startling ideas and mindblowing extrapolations, you'll find the ride well worthwhile. A unique perspective on what may lie in store for us from a unique writer.
第496条评论: Picked up this book to read on the plane while traveling to China. Thought it would get me in the mood, and it did. Just enough of a cultural and historical perspective to find it intriguing, but the plot was a complete surprise and took me to a reality unlike anything I would have imagined.Truly enjoyed, so much so that I've pre-ordered the final installment and bought the second. Although I will wait to read the second of the trilogy because I'm sure I will want more as soon as I finish it. In fact it's quite hard to be that patient.You'd never know this was a translation other than the excellent notes added, which only made it that much more interesting. I'm a new fan and Cixin Liu sits right up there with all of my favorite authors.
第497条评论: If you were one of those readers who found The Martian too technical then keep on shopping.  This is not the book for you.  It is very technical with much discussion on theoretical physics and deep science.  Almost too much for me but I persevered and I am glad I did.  Pretty good story about first contact mixed in with history about the Chinese Revolution in the 60's, something I knew nothing about.  Good character development.  Pretty easy to keep track of the characters but there is plenty of symbolism and metaphors so be prepared for that.  Pretty smooth translation also.  That was very well done.
第498条评论: Very good read.  Different voice than what one usually finds in western authors.  The Chinese setting and historical context makes the novel even more immersive for those who like a bit of "reality" blended with their science fiction.  The science is good and should be technical enough for those who enjoy that style of writing.  Characters are well drawn with enough depth to elicit an emotional response from the reader.One of the better sci fi reads I've had among more modern novelists.  Lui's gifts are undeniable and I wish I could read the book in Chinese with the translation filter.  I highly recommend.
第499条评论: Couldn’t put it down. Need to read it a second time to read all the footnotes. Sad that I did not read this a long time ago.
第500条评论: I absolutely loved some of the ideas in this book, in particular the descriptions about Trisoloran civilization. Wang playing the Three-Body game also were some of my favorite parts. That being said, in general, the writing and narration / translation of the story fell flat for me. I wouldn't necessarily blame the translator, I just think there's a bit of a dissonance between what Chinese readers are used to and what English readers are familiar with. After the book is over, there's a section dedicated to the translator's thoughts, and he states this exact thing - Chinese readers have become used to certain conventions that English readers are completely foreign to, and it was hard to balance the translation while keeping the "soul" of the novel intact. It seems like these conventions and style don't bother some people, but bother others. I was part of the latter group. My suggestion - this book is worth a look, but if you're a few hours in and still don't feel compelled to read, I'd move on.
第501条评论: I recommend Cixin Liu's Three Body Problem if you enjoyed Haruki Murakami's 1Q84, Sergei Lukyanenk's Night Watch. I seek out non-western science fiction and fantasy as I find the differing cultural viewpoint leads to an extra edge of creativity and fantastical extrapolation. Three Body Problem does not disappoint in this application. Yes, the narrative structure is different than most american novel arcs (as translator Ken Liu mentions in his excellent afterward), but that is part of the fun. The slow burn at the start gives way to some amazingly imaginative scenes toward the end (the practical application of 'the flying blade(!!!)'). Also enjoyed that one of the main protagonists is a scientist who happens to be female. If you've read this far, I suggest you pick it up!
第502条评论: I found this novel to be both very creative and interesting.  The telling of it, from "inside the minds" of characters living in the PRC, added a wonderful dimension for me, namely insights into a major world culture.  I felt that the translation was adequate but, at times, a bit clunky.  But my guess is that the translation job was very challenging, so I don't intend to be overly critical.I especially enjoyed how Liu wove all the various parts of the story together to form a coherent narrative.  Well done!  I hope to read the other two novels in the trilogy.
第503条评论: 3 stars is probably harsh. Maybe 3.5 is better. There were parts of this story that were so captivating and creative that I loved it. Then the author would build out with even more detail and that made it even better. Then somewhere along the way it would get to be a bit too much and I would get lost. Such a creative story, I am just not “on fire” to continue reading this series. We will see.
第504条评论: To the scientific types who denigrated "Three Body" with supposed refutations of some of its ideas, I say relax and enjoy it. It's science FICTION. An escape, not a treatise. I enjoyed it and am looking forward to reading the next two books in the series. So "...there was no character development"? Read Agatha Christie if that's what impresses you. But, don't try to show us how smart you are(n't).
第505条评论: This story instantly become one of my favorite science fiction novels. It draws you in as all great books do with a great science fiction mystery. The author gives you enough hints to guess what is going on but by the end you see the true genius of his writing and his incredible imagination. The core idea I saw throughout was whether scientific advancement goes hand in hand with moral advancement. I also saw the evil in believing humanity is so far lost that we don't deserve to write our own history. This story truly awakened a realization in how bizarre it is we yearn to know of other life in the universe but don't cherish the life surrounding us everyday.
第506条评论: The Three-Body Problem captured my attention with a graphic opening -- an account of the cultural revolution's abuse of a leading physicist. This set a grim tone for the story and made the later decisions of the lead character more understandable. Unfortunately, the book drifted in the middle with unnecessarily long and repetitive accounts of a video game meant to give insights into an alien culture. The pace picked up again towards the end, as the conspiracy came together. I was not totally convinced by the premise of that conspiracy, but I am now hooked on the story. The translation from the Chinese is good -- readable, without losing the strange (to me at least) flavor of the original. The description of Chinese society and Chinese personal interactions are fascinating. The science is imaginative yet believable. I look forward to the next two books in the series.
第507条评论: This is an interesting book.  The concept is interesting and the story has kind of an Gaimanesk alternate reality feel.  Having said that I felt like it was dragging on in kind of a drug like haze after awhile.  I quit after 3/4 of the book passed as it stopped holding my interest.  I will probably return to it at some point however.
第508条评论: There're not too many times my mind has done somersaults and "blown" from reading good sci-fi, however this book surprised me with deep sci-fi concepts and a refreshing setting in recent revolutionary China. The pacing is very methodical and slow but it takes time, at least for me it did, to fully grasp the plot and the science behind complex astrophysics and radio astronomy. I'm reminded of "2001: A Space Odyssey" with regards to the long setup to mankind's first realization of extraterrestial intelligence. This novel has a great take on the "first contact" concept and I can't wait to read the next book in Cixin Liu's trilogy.PS: I freaked out when a planet was discovered in the news last week that was part of a three sun system! Makes you wonder...
第509条评论: I read this,  in it's entirety.  Lots on interesting concepts.  But little story.The bane of Science Fiction is the infodump.  This five hundred page book is maybe fifty pages of story and all the rest infodumps.  No real character development and minimal plot,  it's all a setup for massive infodumps.  Admittedly,  the infodumps are in numerous areas and if you're a nerd,  you might enjoy them.  But oh my,  a Hugo Award?
第510条评论: This book is great and I don't want to say much more than that and risk ruining anything.  If you like science-fiction with a humanist bend, you'll dig this series.  This is the first sci-fi book that I've read by a Chinese author, and an added bonus has been learning a bit more about the history and some of the settings the story takes place in, and just have a story told from a different perspective than the one I'm used to.  I'm already almost done with the second book and can't wait for to read the next one.
第511条评论: An interesting and strange book that I enjoyed most of the time. Very similar to Foundation in style in that it felt like one man’s simulation of the future filled in with short stories and though experiments. Very similar to Foundation in pacing in that it lacking it.I recommend it if for no other reason than it’s so alien when compared to American sci-fi. Just be ready for some other culture’s repetitive “humans are flawed” oversimplification to be beat into your head again and again.
第512条评论: " Three Body Problem " is remarkable -both for its vision of first contact,its consequences and the nature of the alien civilization-and for its setting in China,spanning a time period between the Cultural Revolution and today. It is thought provoking,humorous -in a satirical ,sarcastic sort of way,and compelling.The characters are well developed ,as Sci-Fi  goes-especially Da Shi,the crude but clever police detective.Three Body Problem is one of the 2-3 best hard Sci Fi books I've read.Its on a par with " Foundation" ,  "Mote in God's Eye" , "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? " and "Dune".
第513条评论: From a very enligtening concret story at the cultural revolution is developed a scietific tale that is spellbinding for sciencefiction readers•  It will hjelp readers to have some science background to understand the story, bit they will also see theshortfalls.  But recomended reading - also for politicians.
第514条评论: Blows America sci-fi away. A work of awesome imagination. I can understand why some are baffled as it stretches the little grey cells.
第515条评论: I bought this book because of all the publicity (great Chinese author, etc, etc). The concept is good, but there are many problems in execution. The descriptions of the Cultural Revolution are interesting, but once that is over, this book drags and drags, big time. The whole concept of playing a video game to get indoctrinated is odd, but the story keeps on going aimlessly inside the video game. I would have to skip over a few pages to see how much more of this drivel there is to read. Because I skipped, I had to go back a couple of times to get to know the unfamiliar names. Finally, the story comes together, and then, we are forced to read pages upon pages of description of how the aliens make 2 protons travel over here to mess humans up.  The science he describes is of course made up, so instead of summarizing this into a paragraph, he writes volumes on how a proton can become an intelligent object [if you are so smart, why not save your own planet with this technology?] that can hurt human science and keep us from getting smart. Overall, a mediocre book that you can do without.  A tough editor may have salvaged this book if he got involved early on in the writing process.
第516条评论: I could not put this book down. I just finished reading the Old Man's War saga, and stumbled on this trilogy. All the SF I had read up until then was American centered, so this book was a very refreshing change. The perspective is enlightening, and the language and images are perfectly crafted. Beautiful book, with a fast paced, mystery ridden plot that keeps you awake long hours at night. TOTALLY recommended.
第517条评论: The first book of this series is interesting, but is more about how societies might react to large scale problems. Science fiction is just the vehicle. Sadly, the second book in the series really starts picking up to then let you down, really far down, in the third and final volume. Some of the things in the third volume are just plain ridiculous. Seemed like the author just wanted to wrap things up and be done with it. This won't satisfy hard core sci-fi people. CJ Cherryh is a much better "first encounter" novelist. WAY better.
第518条评论: Starts strong but loses steam at end. After a long build-up we get a Ayn Rand-esque exposition dump of quantum mechanics at the end. Nothing that made me want to read the next book.
第519条评论: Truly creative in ways that are unexpected.  It takes a first contact story to the next level.  While the laws of the universe may be benign, what arises out of them need not be. Liu captures the thrill, folly, and challenge of setting aside our aside our limited understanding when it comes to considering extraterrestrial life.  I look forward to completing the trilogy, but Three-Body stands on its own as an excellent work of science fiction.
第520条评论: Really Superb, just don’t give up in the first parts.Original and surprising, a nice dosis of science and fiction!, worth reading.
第521条评论: In my opinion the greatest modern sci-fi novel of our modern era.The ambitious scope of ideas explored dwarfs what most would dare attempt... luckily for us, Liu succeeds gloriously. The writing is sublime, the storytelling incomparable (stories within stories within stories!). I appreciate how the narrator so fluidly shifts viewpoints to advance the action. Breath-taking execution.Having read the trilogy, the story only becomes more epic as the series advances.Bravo!
第522条评论: Great book
第523条评论: Cixin Liu is a genius! I am in awe that such depth and perspective comes from one mind. Not only is the science completely believable, but the characters are personal and human. In addition, the book is poetic, too. I've never read better hard SF, and I've read lots of it. This trilogy is easily in my top five books I've read.
第524条评论: This book is dense but beautiful. I love the story at its heart for it stirred my emotions. Through the course of this story I was fascinated, frightened, awed, angered, inspired and now worried all over again. The story of Ye Wenjie, Wang and the Trisolarans, a decades-long revenge tale and warning that actions have consequences is a brilliant one. I will read book 2, but perhaps a little slower. If I have one fault it is with me and my lack of scientific knowledge.
第525条评论: This is heavy reading. An extremely unique plot. I can see how it deserves awards but it was so technical. I felt I needed to concentrate and I kept waiting for the story to carry me along with the message and action. It didn't. I continued to work at the theories instead of imagining a movie playing. I could feel the cultural significance and the way it forms the characters thoughts and actions; their development. That is more interesting to me rather than all of those complicated scientific facts and terms.
第526条评论: I was curious about reading Chinese science fiction and this had great reviews, so I bought it. The translator has done an excellent job; the book reads as if it was originally written in English. It is interesting to learn about the political context of science in China, but the story itself drags a little. I'm glad I read it, but am not tempted to read any more by this writer.
第527条评论: Nice and unusual sci-fi novel. The Chinese revolution background is wonderful.
第528条评论: I took a while to warm up to this book, but once the hook got me, I was ALL IN! Very excited to get the next two books!
第529条评论: I bought this book because it won so many sci-fi prizes, even though I didn't much like the sample.  BIG mistake.  Although the plot license up once you get past the interminable video game, I found this book to be very tedious.  Maybe it was the awkwardness of reading a book in translation or the cultural gap between China and middle America.  Maybe it was the heavy emphasis on theoretical physics.  Whatever the case, this book was about twice as long as it needed to be and a real snooze.  Save your time and money.
第530条评论: I loved this book.The author is very generous with his brilliant science fiction ideas as he traverses the story of the three body problem.  I admire how he knit these ideas together into a thumping good yarn.  A lesser author would have conserved some of these concepts to form the nucleus of other stories and other novels but this author fearlessly fits one intricate and beautiful idea after another into his tale, like jewels inserted into a crown, until a glittering masterpiece is achieved.
第531条评论: You had to keep reading to find where the story was going. Interesting in that it is situated in China -- sci-fi outside the purely western perspective. Also, it is a book that deserves a second read.
第532条评论: I'm perplexed about how this book has garnered so much acclaim. Leaving aside the choppy writing, the un-characterized characters, the whiplash jerks of scene and action in moving the plot - all of which I have experienced before in SF, especially so-called "hard" SF books , and have been perfectly willing to ignore for the sake of following a brilliant scientific concept displayed in fiction - this book's key moments of "science" and "physics" are no better than fantasy.  Not as good as a good fantasy either because it's written so earnestly and portentously. Whole chapters had me muttering "WTF - he can't be serious!  He can't be that ignorant of physics! Thousands of critics have praised him in email!"  Liu might as well have spent a sentence or two having his aliens build a warp drive and invent sub-space communications for his plot device, and spared readers the embarrassing tedium of reading descriptions of particle physics that seem lifted from comic books as digested by a bored high school student who is failing his science classes.
第533条评论: I really enjoyed the story here. The author goes deep into some of the main characters' backgrounds and motives, so its not a 'dry' science fiction that is just about the science. Instead, you will be pulled in to see what happens to the characters, and humanity itself. As for the 'science', I thought it was very imaginative. Many ideas that I haven't seen before. Very well deserving of all the critical acclaim.
第534条评论: The science fiction was excellent ... This is story of a "First Contact" event and it reads like a thriller ... The author's way of getting "Super Luminal Communications" to work was well done.  I enjoy reading that sort of detail, I imagine myself a good judge of how much my 'sense of disbelief' needs to be suspended to appreciate the 'science' part of science fiction, and, in this case not very much.
第535条评论: This is a fantastic book. It surprised me on many levels, and I left with a feeling of being blown away, not dissimilar to what I felt when I read Asimov's Foundation series in my teens.
第536条评论: I can't remember when I enjoyed  a series so much. The scientific and philosophic discussions, along with the reactions of society to events, are absolutely fascinating!
第537条评论: I liked ghe concepfs explored in the book but it seemed ununified in too many places switching out crom reality ti the three body game.
第538条评论: I liked the hard science that was included and all the footnotes about the Cultural Revolution and chinese puns that didn't translate. I need to read the next two in the series.
第539条评论: The first thing that caught my interest was the historical perspective of the Chinese revolution that occurred during my youth. From this history grows a story of human emotion and alien intelligence, and their impact on the future of life on earth. The story unfolds cleverly using today's technology and interest in on-line games to tell a tale of the struggle for survival. I will begin the second book immediately!
第540条评论: To be fair, I didn't read the English translation of this book, rather read it's Chinese original and loved it. The characters have layers of different meaning and definitions. With its back drop of real world stories, sometimes I forgot what's real and what's not. Although I heard that the translation was some what of an issue.
第541条评论: Really enjoyed this book, much different and made you think more than common sci-fi books.The best is to go into this book without knowing too much about where it is going
第542条评论: This book has a gripping story, full of intelligence and complicated nuance. The science is supported by very convincing detail, the suspense is supported by beautifully described action, and the dialog between characters from different walks of life is lively and entertaining.
第543条评论: I struggled to get through some of the dense, layered development of the beginning, but at a certain point realized I was completely wrapped up in the story.Really good book that poses some interesting questions about the fate of humanity should something or someone be waiting for us out there in the universe.
第544条评论: Highly recommended after reading Sapiens and understanding how fleeting our species and civilisation is. Amazing plot, strong characters, read this first book of the trilogy before the movie comes out. Blast through the second one because I can't believe how bad it was, and the third one redeems itself.
第545条评论: The concepts and ideas are wonderful. The book, though jumps around from main character to main character and even time periods, and mixed with unfamiliar names and cultural events, makes it somewhat more difficult to follow. In the end I had no feelings at all for any of the characters, their personalities lost entirely in the effort to puzzle out the story itself.
第546条评论: Don't want to gush, but this book is a great read.  Drew me in and couldn't stop reading it.  Now on book #2.
第547条评论: This book is both creative and insightful.  The plot development is unique and executed masterfully.  The author effectively uses the Chinese history of scientific investigation from the Cultural Revolution thru the present, as the backdrop for the story.  The science and the philosophy behind the story is mind expanding, to say the least.
第548条评论: The best science fiction I have read for many years.  Do yourselves a favour and buy this. Also his short-story collection The Wandering Earth. Riveting.
第549条评论: Cixin Liu is a national treasure in China and this the first of his works to be translated into English. Part hard science, part detective thriller, part fantasy, the writing is smart, occasionally funny, and immediately compelling. Cixin Liu is the modern day equivalent of Asimov or Clarke, but with a voice as original as any of the greats.
第550条评论: Very well developed story.  I do think however that some parts were unnecessarily dense with technical details.  It was otherwise one of my favorite reads ever.
第551条评论: I have never read anything like it. I finished it weeks ago and I still can't get it out of my head. An absolute work of art!
第552条评论: This would be a great Twilight Zone episode in 30 minutes.  Some wonderful ideas, but lots of complexity. But I think I may read Book 2 to see what happens.
第553条评论: The beginning of this book is nowhere near what you can expect from the end of this bookIt begins as what seems to be a historical account. This may seem dull but its purpose is made known throughout the entire book without directly stating it. It’s a background for all that is to come. For the fate of the entire human raceThe meat of the book shares some of the most creative writing I have ever read in my life. That I am likely to read in my life until AI begins writing high art (since it will naturally be the result of a non human mind).I am impressed. I am thankful. The concepts here have changed me as a person. Made me more mature. Caused me to grow and develop further. And I can only smile as I imagine what’s to come in book 2 of the 4 (at the time of writing)Allow yourself to descend into the madness that is human expression
第554条评论: I loved it. This books sets the stage for a very interesting story. It is very good in itself. I must confess it was hard for me to keep track of the Chinese names and keep them connected with the characters. But I got used to it. I have also to say that there are interesting explanations for what is happening and they are mind blowing. The author makes multiple uses of science principles to create a narrative that is compelling and makes you remember over and over how things we don’t understand just yet can look like magic. It is also compelling to read a book that has china at the center stage and uses Chinese culture to build its universe. The author does not exaggerate on this and I would even have liked to have some more of it.
第555条评论: After numerous recommendations, I finally checked out this book. It took a long time for the story to capture my attention, but when it finally did I found the book to be quite fascinating.Story- Not super exciting, but told intelligently. The history of China’s cultural revolution is both tragic and relevant. In this case it takes a while before it’s shown why that past is so important to the story. The chapters referring to the game were confusing, and I’m still not sure how it’s supposed to be played, or why any characters would find it enjoyable. It’s quite fortuitous that Ye Wenjie happens to run into a multi-billionaire that hates humanity, for the actual plot to occur. That entire sequence seemed a little rushed compared to the pace of the rest of the story.Characters- More vessels to get the story across. Apart from Da Shi, everyone was just a scientist that discussed how important science was. You could easily forget that Wang even had a wife and child since he seems to have. Ye Wenjie at least seemed to have changed by the end of the story- appearing to have regretted her roleWriting- not bad, but not captivating. I understand that the book was translated from Chinese, so I’m sure a lot of the nuance may have been lost.Science- A lot of hard science is dropped on us, but some time is devoted to making sure it is understood by the author. I’m not sure of the mechanics for the computer game, but I got a good Ender’s game vibe from it. All the proton manipulation at the end seemed rushed. The alien civilization was fascinating. Their society adapted to such extreme environments, and it was displayed very well. The fact that the first interactions between civilizations was between traitors undermining their species was an interesting idea.Overall, I would recommend reading this book. It takes a while to sift through a lot of seemingly meaningless parts, but everything pays off in the end. I have heard many conflicting opinions about the sequels, but will likely still check them out.
第556条评论: Real science fiction. Hard science mixed with history and some psychology thrown in.Started a bit slow but really took off
第557条评论: As I read, I kept finding myself intrigued by the mysteries unfolding, wondering what might be actually possible in some future world. What an imagination the author has! I’m not a scientist and don’t know much about physics, but I was riveted by this novel. Can’t wait to read the next installment!
第558条评论: This entertaining novel is a must read for people who need to learn more about the modern Chinese way of thinking, especially about the Jiang Zemin generation. I read it, above all, because of high recommendations from people who rarely read or recommend science fiction, like Obama and my wife. Once I got started, I put down what I had been reading before, because this one was much more engaging.  Not the very fastest, but clear and thoughtful, and the characters are well worth knowing.  For many years, the pure Jiang Zemin viewpoint was firmly in charge of China, from the start of rapid economic growth to the recent advent of Xi Jinping who has tried to accommodate other and older parts of Chinese culture which have reasserted themselves a lot, some for good and some for ill, not as well integrated as one might like. (The contradictions between Marxism and the new world power Sinopec are extremely tricky, for example, as is the issue of how to treat workers in new world trade arrangements.)  The novel gives some feeling for the past, the feelings and the power of Tsinghua University, which is much more than China's equivalent of MIT and Harvard, even still under its graduate Xi. Even now, most believe that Tsinghua is much more powerful in its way than the Communist Party itself, though of course they are not fighting each other much now.  The novel gives a firmly science-based view of life, the universe, human feelings, politics and so on. Among other things, it reminds us of the real importance of most fundamental science in the rise and fall of species, let alone civilizations and economic growth. Is it right in the obvious corollary that the survival of our own species will depend more and more on those parts of the world who really do permit growth in science (unlike the recent powerful "reforms" of Lamar Smith and his ilk)?  But the novel also unintentionally displays reasons to be skeptical of China's ability to fill in the new holes in human progress. Above all, it conveys a kind of faith in science as a kind of alternate religion, as a source of revealed truths, rather than the painful ragged attempt to come to grips with a very frustrating, complex and even dirty real world, which requires endless skepticism, detachment and struggle to overcome  the limitations of one's own past beliefs. Yes, the truth below 3 femtometers changes everything, and changes what forms of life and production and economy (and "magic") are achievable, as the novel says. but we will never get there if we have too much faith in nonempirical things like superstring theory. The book does properly highlight the importance of mathematics in all this, but does not begin to mention the more compelling issues in becoming more coherent and logically forceful (and "yang") in the "simple" worlds of empirical quantum electrodynamics and vehicle structures, without which none of these more interesting things could possibly ever become real.  (Still, Tsinghua has impressive capabilities in the former which the US has lost, due to the genius of our chest-beaters.)  But: I have yet to read the two next books in the sequence.
第559条评论: A very well written book, although somewhat confusing. The beginning is very slow and following Ye through Cultural Revolution seems a bit pointless at first, only after learning of what she does and why she does it. Her experience in these troublesome time feeds the readers understanding of her motive to sent an influential message that changes human history.The character of Wang is moving trough the plot to discover the consequences of Ye's massage.I recommend this book to everyone who loves si-fi but let this book not be your first in the genre because it will overwhelm new people to the genre.
第560条评论: Cixin Liu is a multi-award winning science fiction whose works are now available in English translation.  This is the first in a planned trilogy.  The novel begins during the time of China’s Cultural Revolution.  Academics are being purged and forced to undergo Communist indoctrination.  One area remains untouched, that of science as China is planning a project to contact aliens from outer space.  Ye Wenjie had watched her scientist father being beaten to death; yet by a strange series of circumstances, she is chosen to be part of this new team to reach outer space.  This is truly hard science fiction.  Even though the science of astrophysics is hard to follow, one can skip some of the scientific descriptions and still get the gist of the plots herein.  At first the problems with the project are that Wenjie and her colleagues are studying scientific theory, they discover that eventually all past theories become negated by the new ones.  Physics, Biology and Computer Science are omitted after their use has become negated by technology leaps.The Red Coast Project is highly secure with a classified rating.  Wang Miao has been invited to be part of the project even though his field of nanotechnology is totally unrelated to this problem.  Wang has a problem getting others to answer his questions.  What he learns is mostly from what originally was a virtual reality game called Three Body which involves discovering and eventually the renunciation of these same theories by Newton, Von Neumann, the First Zhou Emperor, Syzygy, etc.Suddenly, the Three Body game is no longer a game but a connection with Extraterrestrial beings, the Trisolaran Fleet.  Instead of being excited, the scientists become divided in factions.  The proverbial problem is after the discovery, what are these beings like and can Chinese plans fuse with the Trisolaran beings?  Will the latter reform human civilization, the goal being the elimination of all human madness and evil?  Will the Earth be destroyed?  Yours to be discovered!The author includes a postscript in which he describes how his interest in science and scientific theory developed which is clear and interesting to follow.All in all, this is a difficult text to read but contains ideas about science and scientists and humanity that is sure to intrigue fans of hard core science fiction.  It certainly will provoke much dialogue about its theories, plots and plans for future novels in the series!
第561条评论: This book was mind blowing to me, I learned a lot during my read. It really makes you think at a greater scale, I could not stop reading. Excellent, I would recommend to anyone who is into science fiction.
第562条评论: Interwoven with Chinese modern history of communism it is very ambitious and complex book about encountering alien culture and interests. Great disillusionment and bitterness of certain intellectual portion of earth society turned into self hatred and betrayal of the humanity. I liked the most the Three Body Problem game - it was awesome. There was a lot of science in the book and a lot of it over my head and interest although crucial to the story line. Highly recommended.
第563条评论: What an adventure.
第564条评论: I tried hard to like this book but I am baffled by all the accolades it receives. It is at best mediocre and undeserving of the awards it has won.It is difficult to separate out bad writing from translation issues, but now that I have completed the second book in the series I think I have a better handle on that.There two central issues in all of these books, either of which could sink them alone but together make them a frustrating reading experience.One is the shallowness of the characters. They are one dimensional cardboard cutouts with single motivations. Each exists to represent one thought -- to hate all of humanity, to withdraw in selfishness, etc.The other is the tinker toy plot. Events happen because the author needs for them to happen, not because they grow organically out of the characters and their interaction with situations. Plot is then retrofitted onto the  even that needs to happen. A good example of this is in the second book where the author needs to destroy the entire Earth fleet. So when a probe shows up from an enemy that has previously stated its intent to wipe out humanity, it is greeted as a peaceful gift from friendly aliens. Everybody on Earth wants to bask in the glory of welcoming the gift so they send every single ship they have out to meet it, and bunch them up tightly, the better, you know, to get in on the glory.Please.As I said, I don't see how writing this amateurish could possibly win a Hugo. In fact, I have a hard time seeing how it merits publication.A further issue for me is gross abuse of physics. It is, of course, a long standing tradition to cook up all manner of subspace hyperspace ansible warp drives to get around the constraints of modern physics. I'm ok with that. Invent whatever new ideas you need to. But it is NOT ok, and is indeed jarring, to misuse existing, well established scientific ideas in a way that is completely contradictory to the actual scientific meaning. And Liu does this like crazy.Let's take quantum entanglemnt. This may well be the single most misunderstood concept in all of quantum theory, and Liu's misunderstanding is maximal. He has multiple entangled particles being used for espionage and to interfere with scientific research by subverting the data, communicating information back and forth with home base via the entanglement.(1) You can't have entanglement between more than two particles. There's actually a theorem to this effect (it's called the monogamy theorem: https://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0604168). For maximally entangled particles, there can be at most two.(2) No information is transmitted by entanglement. This is physically impossible due to the fundamental nature of quantum mechanics -- it is completely random and you cannot embed information in a random signal. Everything you read about how one particle communicates its state to another particle is BS. You have to think of the particles as a single quantum object, not as two distinct objects communicating with each other.(3) Any interaction experienced by one of the entangled particles that alters its state (necessary to gather information or interfere with experiments) completely destroys the entanglement. No more spies.And the less said about the idea of engraving a computer on an elementary particle, the better.As I said, I gave it a good try, reading 2/3 of the trilogy, but I'm debating whether I even want to finish it off. Life is too short to waste it on bad writing. This is like a throwback to American science fiction from the 20's. That's not a good thing.
第565条评论: Between all of the rave reviews, drooling and rather uninspiring (read: overhyped and clichéd) summary I was nervous to pick up this book. It touted itself as this huge landmark book with dozens of awards while no one would really say what it was about. After reading it I get why.The Three-Body Problem is a throwback to the golden ages of science fiction with its fresh perspective and thrilling ideas. It's the perfect reflective mirror on humanity and science, no matter how dark and cynical everything feels there is this impossible hope and optimism that pulls you through. The characters may not be the most well developed but they slide right into the story and carry the reader through, they do exactly what the need to do and no more or less. The plot is engaging and moving, it drifts from science to almost daydreamy hazes so smoothly, even the info dumps managed to have a solid rhythm and almost mysticism about them. The camera scene will go down as one of my favorite things to read ever, everything about it was just perfect.The whole mix of everything makes it difficult to sum it up in a neat little package. A clean clinical review sounds too distant from how huge the story is and nonsensical rambles are too hard to control without ruining it for first time readers. What I will say is that the praise and hype is well deserved, the translator did a great job (thank you for the cultural notes!) and I sincerely hope that the success of this book will continue to push publishers to import and translate more books from around the world. Liu Cixin puts it best, "Science fiction is a literature that belongs to all humankind. It portrays events of interest to all of humanity, and thus science fiction should be the literary genre most accessible to readers of different nations. Science fiction often describes a day when humanity will form a harmonious whole, and I believe the arrival of such a day need not wait for the appearance of extraterrestrials. "
第566条评论: The reviews are mixed but the bad one's miss an important point.  It is fascinating to see the world (universe) building from the perspective of citizens of the PRC.  I am sure I have missed a lot, but most science fiction is very Western in its orientation regarding politics, culture, tradition and reaction.  I was struck by the different ways crisis was managed and considered.The physics may be off and there is some noticeable handwaving,  but this is worth the effort.  For those offended by the incorrect physics, I would ask how Navigators fold space for the Guild and if they cannot explain it, do they toss Dune in the trash heap.  The realistic treatment of time and travel is also fresh to me.  There is no quick jaunt to the next system and the sure but not swift invasion force makes for an interesting look at the international response(s).
第567条评论: The Three Body Problem  by Cixin Liu  Feb 7, 2017I learned about this book watching a TV interview with John Holdren, Barak Obama’s science advisrr.  (Who said, by the way, that Obama was the most science-savvy president since Thomas Jefferson).  Holdren said he and the president spent a good deal of time discussing ‘The Three Body Problem.’I don’t normally read science fiction but this is simply a terrific novel.  I found the first half a bit confusing and somewhat slow but shortly thereafter the book grabbed me by the throat.  The Three Body Problem meets my three criteria for a good (or very good) novel:  it’s well-written, it educates and it makes you think.I’ve read that Cixin Liu is the most popular science fiction writer in China and American readers are fortunate that the Chinese government allowed foreign publication – which I think is pretty rare.  I’m sure some of the elegance and subtlety of the original Chinese text was lost in the English translation but translator did a good job of making the prose clear.One might imagine the main point of Three Body Problem is a cautionary tale regarding purposeful communication with potential alien civilizations.  It is certainly faulty logic for a civilization with a tract record of genocide of every land it has invaded to think that a civilization with the ability for interstellar travel will be benign - how ultimately absurd.  But that cautionary tale is but one of many thought lessons provided by Cixin Liu.  Early portions of the book are set in the Chinese Cultural Revolution of the 1960s where reason and science were overthrown in the name of dogmatic purity (with one result being that millions of Chinese citizens starved to death).  One cannot but notice the comparisons of the Cultural Revolution to contemporary American politics.A marvelous read.  I look forward to the two other novels of the Three Body Trilogy.February 2017
第568条评论: Liu Cixin is an author I wish I could be more familiar with. The Three-Body Problem was a positively stunning piece of hard science fiction with a profound hint of the fantastic still built on extrapolation.I don't know what is lost in the translation from Chinese into English, but I find it difficult to believe that it could have been more well-written if it had been written originally in English. I suspect that this is equal parts the quality of the original material and the caliber of the translator. From what I have read it appears that the second volume in the trilogy has a different translator while the final volume is translated by the same man who expertly converted The Three-Body Problem into English. Sadly, though the second volume is available now, I have to wait until later this year before the third book is released in English.This novel begins during the nightmare of The Cultural Revolution spearheaded by Chairman Mao and a good deal of the narrative focuses on the anti-intellectual and anti-progress philosophy that was imposed upon the whole culture during that time period beginning in the 1960s and continuing for a couple of decades after that. It is interesting, to say the least, to have a perspective on that period provided by someone who grew up through it as the author had.From there it grows into a frankly captivating and disturbing first contact narrative that unfolds in a rather unexpected way. I can't say much without giving altogether too much away, but I can't recommend this book enough for anyone who enjoys science fiction or simply enjoys science and wants a fictional template through which certain concepts can be expressed and better visualized.I look forward to the second novel and wish that I could look forward to reading the third book much sooner than it is going to be available to those of us who can't read a Chinese dialect.
第569条评论: There aren't that many sci-fi novels that blend the fervor of the Cultural Revolution, abstract (and applied) quantum mechanics, and a civilization-building virtual reality game.  With so many ideas packed into one novel, which also spans two generations and 40+ years, it's not surprising that the pace of the story was sometimes uneven.  But if you're looking for an "ideas" book, this is it.Not only were interesting concepts introduced, but they were explored and weaved into the broader narrative.  The main character opened the book watching revolutionaries violently interrogate her father, and that experience motivated her (and others) through to the last page of the book.  The three-body physics problem for which the book was named unfolded in a virtual reality game, which was built (in part) to solve the problem of a planet plagued by the wildly unpredictable orbits of three suns.  While some of the solutions explored by the players were more interesting than others, the process of testing each solution drew inspiration from sources as varied as Buddhism and rustic computing.I enjoyed the ideas, but the book had a ponderous pace and the characters were somewhat remote and often unsympathetic.  I also struggled to believe the story at times, as some characters made wild leaps in behavior without much explanation, and the plot careened off into crazy land as the climax neared.Overall, I enjoyed the journey, and look forward to sampling more books by this author.
第570条评论: I read this entire trilogy and I enjoyed each book for its strengths and weaknesses. Each book is a slow build with definite moments of suspense. If you are looking for a modern day smash and grab, this book (and the trilogy) are not for you. If you want to immerse in the creations of a writer that has tied together MANY different scientific, philosophical, and theoretical concepts/disciplines, then perhaps this book (and trilogy) will satisfy you.I realize that everything in this book is not factual, but when did we become so critical of authors that we fail to tap into their story and apply that "willing suspension of disbelief"? I write that last statement after reading some one star reviews and the critical statements critiquing the story and style. This entire trilogy provided an opportunity to think on perspectives outside my own, which I believe is one of the reasons we read stories written by others!Take time to use your imagination and walk with the characters. I appreciate the perspective of someone from a distinctly different culture than my own crafting this story line and boldly moving in directions that others may dislike. This trilogy is worth the commitment simply because it wrestles with fundamental questions about who we are as humans, our hubris in light of the universe, and that things simply do not always turn out the way that we want.Hmmmmm... sounds a bit like real life?!
第571条评论: What a truly wonderful book. Broke the mold for me of what seemed like an endless repeat of the same tropes.
第572条评论: I wasn't sure what I was in for but was absolutely delighted. The portrayals of fhe Cultural Revolution are poetic and chilling. The science and story are well balanced and the story is as complex as I've come to expect of Chinese literature. The characters many are calling "flat" and "cardboard" aren't that so much as they represent archetypes found throught the history of Chinese mythology and writing. Going into this Westerners need to understand that this was not a book written with them at the forefront. It's a Chinese story, written for the Chinese reader, translated to maintain the integrity of mode of thought and cultural touchstones. Dear American, this was not written for you, it is being shared with you. One doesn't need to necessarily understand all this thoroughly to appreciate it anymore than one needs an in depth understanding of any made up alien culture in any other science fiction novel. You don't need to be a scholar of Chinese history to get it. I enjoyed the mirroring toward the end, showing the alien mind as not much different than our own and that experiences can be universal.This is very much story driven with the science playing a major role, however there's no need to have a PhD in astrophysics to get that the 3 Body Problem is a Bad Thing for the Trisolarians. I found both the science *and* the science fiction to be solid. My general measure for this is whether or not I feel the need to put the book down in order to look up anything that strikes me as just plain wrong. The cables suspending my disbelief didn't snap so I was able to enjoy the story.
第573条评论: The "Three Body Problem" had the potential to be a great story however actually reading it is like reading a homework assignment in an uninteresting course. Do not read on if you don't want spoilers.I really should love this story. It has: a good hook, aliens, an international conspiracy, and an interesting cultural context in Maoist China but the story is delivered so ham fistedly that I can't enjoy it. Cixin Liu seems incapable of showing character change and motivation through action and instead will describe action then detail how this resulted in some character progression. This form of storytelling is so blunt that the fictious nature of the story is always front and center and I have no emotional connection to anyone but Wang Miao and Da Shi. Besides that, the flow of the enlgish translation is so concise and consistent that I feel like I'm reading a dry historical narrative and not a sweeping sci-fi epic. Last, the narrative lacks suspense in the middle part of the book. The moment where Ye Wenjie is broadcasting a signal inviting aliens to invade Earth could be extremely exciting. Would she be found out? What would it mean if she were caught? But instead we are treated to a step-by-step process of her sending the signal and decoding the response. Was this added just to impress academics who work in signal processing? The middle portion of the book is devoid of suspense and I found it rote and boring. I want to love this book but I can't recommend it to anyone.P.S. the whole VR narative is an interesting thesis about the limits and purpose of science but has no impact on the plot. It should've been removed.
第574条评论: I have been reading science fiction since I was 8. That was 1960, the year Stranger in a Strange Land was published. [Didn’t read it until 1969] While I concede that I haven’t read everything, that covers many, many, many wonderful books and some lessers ones too. I read Dune at Woodstock. The dried mud is still on it. That includes Hyperion all the way up to Peter Hamilton. Otherland by Tad Williams is another classic. I work in the criminal justice system and Greg Bear’s Queen of Angels is staggering. I could go on and on but you get the point. I just finished The Three Body Problem and the 2 sequels. All 3 took a total of a week. To borrow a hackneyed  expression, I just couldn’t put them down. Mr. Liu is a towering talent. Magnificent. Very few could conceive of such a tale and have the unparalleled talent to write it. I could not recommend it more highly. As an afterthought, The Dark Forest concept was also addressed by Greg Bear in the Forge of God and the Anvil of Stars. If you enjoyed this as much as I have you should read those as well. You wonder if Mr. Liu has read them, but that detracts not at all from this immediate classic.He takes it in another direction entirely. Read it!!! That's one exclamation for each book.
第575条评论: I don’t understand the hype surrounding this book. I literally had to force myself to finish it. The pace was slow and the characters were forgettable. It was boring! To me, this seems like the kind of book people put on their shelves to look “trendy”.
第576条评论: The first time I read The Three-Body Problem was back to 8 years ago in high school when it was first released on the most famous SF magazine in China. I found it really engaging and reading the new released chapters every month was one of the greatest joy that time. I still kept those magazines at home. The plot is great and surprising with deep thoughts on civilizations. The author tries to explain the knowledge of physics and technology which builds the story as best as he could and I think it is self-content. The first book is just a start while the second one is astonishing. There are few moments in my life that I finish a whole book at one sitting. Reading Dark Forest is the most impressive one. Some people may find the English version hard to read and think it is due to the translation. The original Chinese version was written in such a serious style that it takes a longer time to digest even for a native speaker. Honestly speaking, the translator does a better job than I have expected. He follows the original expressions carefully, satisfying a reader like me who has read the Chinese version many times. The third one is a long but very broad story on the scale of the whole universe. I recommend this trilogy to people like hard SF and want to know more about history or culture of China. If you do not understand some of the phrases or terms, ask your Chinese friends nearby and I'm sure they are more than happy to explain them to you;)
第577条评论: Glad I finally picked this up. Excited to read the next book in the series. I don't understand all of the physics but that doesn't stop me from enjoying the novel.
第578条评论: This book was great. It almost read  like a mystery. What is the Three Body Problem and how does it relate to the people on Earth and a mysterious alien civilization? Read and find out. One scientist tries to figure out why strange and paranormal results in his area of expertise, another is at a base responsible for reading messages from space, and there is a videogame that connects all of it together in the most profound and mind blowing way. Set across decades of time, and across the galaxy as well, read the 1st book of a trilogy that describes man's first contact with an alien species.Yes, there are a few too many Chinese names- Ye, Wang, Yang, Weng, Shi.. Sometimes you get confused but you'll be okay.And yes, there is some scientific jargon that may confuse you if you don't know about particle physics, etc. But I love that stuff, and this book was great. I just finished the first book and I'm starting the second one today.
第579条评论: It's impossible to rate this book on it's own since it's part of a stunning trilogy, and the quality of this book only really shines in the context of the whole. Cixin gets very technical in parts, and descriptions of physics can go on, and on. For that reason, I am glad that I had an audiobook for this one. I'm an academic, and already do a lot of reading, and some sections would start to feel more like work than relaxation. Still, I might have drifted off a little here and there during the most intense technical descriptions, but still paid enough attention to learn a bit about the speed of light, black holes and different dimensions.I also put the series down in the middle of the second book when I realized that there was not a single female character left that was a significant part of the narrative. But, I came back to it eventually, and I'm so glad I did. As it turns out, the 3rd book is largely from a feminine point of view, and thinking back, I'm pretty sure that Cixin was intentionally emphasizing a masculine point of view in the second book.Otherwise, the incredible scope of this book and the sheer audacity of even trying to tell this the story Cixin tells is breathtaking. It even has the quality of a fairy tale, but not a modern Disney version, more like the old dark folk tales of the past. Cixin waxes and wanes from optimism and despair, destruction and renewal and yin and yang throughout. As with life, there is no fairy tale ending, the story just ends when it ends.I'm going to be thinking about this story for many years to come.
第580条评论: I really enjoy reading books about people from other cultures and by people from other cultures, but generally it's not science fiction. This book is a unique glimpse into a Chinese view of the world through the lens of science fiction and in that way, it is amazingly fulfilling. In fact, reading it brings forth the truth that even in science fiction we cannot absolve ourselves from the prejudices and viewpoints of our own society. What I am saying is that this book is uniquely Chinese, it could not have been written by a western writer. That makes it doubly enlightening; it gives us a view into the Chinese mindset and also points out our own limitations in imagination. How can we hope to describe a truly alien society when we can't even present a society that is not rife with assumptions based on our own society.In addition to that, the book is highly imaginative, presenting ideas in a unique and interesting way.On the down side, character development is weak and it took about 30% of the book before I felt engaged with any of the characters at all. Also, some of the descriptions become quite tedious.I do want to read the second book in the series, but not right away. I need a break from this writing style before I feel up to reading more.
第581条评论: I've read the Chinese edition for the first volume before and I feel that it is really the best Chinese science fiction I've ever encountered. I order this book one month ago and it finally arrived today. It is well printed while I do expect they could include some photo illustrations like the front cover. I first read the author's postscript for the English edition near the end of the book. Here are some quotes:1. In this book, a man named "humanity" confronts a disaster, and everything he demonstrates in the face of existence and annihilation undoubtedly has sources in the reality that I experienced. The wonder of science fiction is that it can, when given certain hypothetical world settings, turn what in our reality is evil and dark into what is righteous and bright, and vice versa. This book and its two sequels try to do just that, but no matter how reality is twisted by imagination, it ultimately remains there.2. I think it should be precisely the opposite: Let's turn the kindness we show toward the stars to members of the human race on Earth and build up the trust and understanding between the different peoples and civilizations that make up humanity. But for the universe outside the solar system, we should be ever vigilant, and be ready to attribute the worst of intentions to any Others that might exist space. For a fragile civilization like ours, this is without a doubt the most responsible path.Well, at last, I hope all of you who's going to pick up this book enjoy it~
第582条评论: I don't know why this book is popular.  Very drawn out and long winded.  After waiting forever for something to happen I gave up and put it away.
第583条评论: This is a unique first contact sci-fi novel with two amazingly complex and interesting settings or imaginary worlds.  One is somewhat symbolic, the other is fascinatingly scientific.  It reminded me a bit of Philip K. Dick’s bizarre stories until the author went elsewhere.  I especially like the colossal pendulum intended to hypnotize God and the hypothetical “could there be some religion whose god needs worshipers to pray to the gods of other religions to save it?”  But intriguing philosophical questions are not the only interesting aspects of this novel.  The science is amazing. My only complaint was that the story and the characters seemed to take a back seat to the ideas.  I thought that was a failing of the author until I read his postscript.  He feels “... the greatest and most beautiful stories in the history of humanity were not sung by wandering bards or written by playwrights and novelists, but told by science.”  The translator says, “the Chinese literary tradition ... gives rise to different emphases and preferences in fiction compared to what American readers expect.” You should read these postscripts first, then dive into an imaginary world unlike any other you have read.
第584条评论: This is the kind of science fiction I like -- it takes existing science and explores the possibilities in an engaging plot.  The characters are interesting, though not enough to make you identify with them or care very much what happens to them.  Even the woman who watches her father get beaten to death during the Cultural Revolution and then is imprisoned in a research facility for twenty years is something of an ass, as she joins a group that wants to help alien invaders destroy all of humanity.  The strength of the book is in its exploration of scientific concepts like the three body problem, which even Isaac Newton was aware of when he developed his laws of motion.  There is also a little speculation about a practical application of string theory that I won't discuss to avoid spoiling it.  The book takes a while to get going, as most of the reveals come in the last third, so hang in there because the action picks up and quickly reaches crisis proportions.  And then the book stops.  Because this is only the first part of a trilogy.  Damn. Now I have to go out and buy the other books to find out if humanity wins in the end.
第585条评论: Wow. Definitely recommend. Mix of history and science as well as human drama crest quite the page turner. And I don’t usually read sci-fi.
第586条评论: Science fiction has a habit of devolving into overly convoluted nonsense.This can be seen in series such as Enders Game (univerasal metaphysical thread that combines all of us and permits us to bring people back from the dead by believing in them), Rendezvous for Rama (aliens create vessels to collect life from the galaxy for nefarious purposes. None of which make economic sense), 2001 A Space Oddysey (somehow a dude becomes reborn god? I'm still not sure what happened there but I know it was stupid).All these stories start strong. Brilliant. You can't put them down but soon you realize the author is so focused on upping the scientific ante, they turn from science fiction authors to fantasy authors.The Three Body Problem ends in this way. It builds to a conclusion that is unsatisfying and comes out of nowhere.It is alluded to from the start but it is so fantastical that it debases the entire story.The story is good enough but I don't think it's one you need to continue reading.
第587条评论: ... in a badly structured book.I really liked the last 2 chapters which are really interesting and novel but I'm frustrated as I nearly gave up on the book before getting there. And then, it was over!Also, candidly, are the characters and readers so uneducated so as to be clueless about the MASSIVE hint given by the (admitedly appealing) title? The best part before the last chapters are the 3-body game scenes but then again, beyond the "inventions" if the reader knows what's going on, how come a top scientists need some much time to figure out the problem?Character development is weak and there's noone in there you really root for. It's  shame as this was an opportinity to give us more of a insight into the Chinese culture, it's values and how things have evolved since  the Cultural Revolution. Disappointingly, the characters are more manichean than in a good old Western movies.Mild spoiler alert: Is this part of a trilogy or is there a sequel? if so, let's see how the check-mate situation disclosed in the end is resolved? I would then comment I am not sure if the book could not be cut down to Part 1 of a bigger more galactic saga-esque novel. This said, I'll probably give a sequel a try to see if the technology introduced in the end of the book produce interesting stuff.Finally, the translator does a fine job giving the reader an window in the Chinese language and this is a big-plus despite my comments about the characters.Hope this helps.
第588条评论: Besides the obvious flaws like totally flat and unbelievable characters and just having long passages without any dialog or tension ("this happens, then this happens, then this happens.."), I can't help but laugh a little about the fact that the author describes an alien civilization that lives on a planet with 3 suns, and therefore is interested in solutions to the "three body problem" in physics. If you count carefully, 3 suns plus 1 planet is actually 4, so the book should be called the four body problem?I disagree with some reviewers that you need a PhD in physics to understand the concepts. There is nothing to understand. The author just throws around some random physics trivia he probably picked up on Wikipedia. His depiction of scientists and what motivates them is utterly ridiculous - kind of like a child's idea of what makes scientists tick.I also disagree that some of this can be explained by the translation from Chinese to English. The various weaknesses of the book are much deeper than a language barrier, unless of course all Chinese literature is boring with unbelievable characters and no dialog? I find that hard to believe.
第589条评论: Chinese Scifi, well I thought I would try it and see what it was like. Different. The themes it explores are not the sorts of things you generally see in western scifi. Its all about loyalty and trust, and betrayal. When you think about the history of China with the revolution and all that makes sense. In some ways the book feels a little naïve, but it was a pretty good read. I enjoyed the very different perspective on things to think about, and it presented some pretty fun problems.If you are looking for a good scifi book that's different from your typical read, this is worth a go. I have bought the second one but not read it yet. Hoping it continues to develop well. If nothing else, this is not predictable.
第590条评论: If there's anything that stands out especially prominently for me in Liu's novel, it's the opportunity to experience Chinese culture, if indirectly, across a wide stretch of its development into a modern, technological state. The scope of the book stretches from the period of Mao's Cultural Revolution  to a more modern era, offering a rich imagery for what it must have been like to live in the cultural transformations of those decades. On top of that, the arc of the story is rendered in segments that jump back and forth from the past to the novel's present period, providing a varied reveal of the components of the plot and characters. The science is solid, with extrapolations that hold together for me, at least, and move the action along at a good pace. The characters, with some exceptions, are not especially richly developed, but that doesn't detract significantly from their roles in the story. I look forward to reading the next two works in the series with anticipation.
第591条评论: I had heard quite a bit of hype about this book, so thought I would give it a try.  There are some interesting ideas in here, but the prose is a bit stiff and the characters seem thinly drawn to me.  It was originally written in Chinese and translated, and it feels like a translation somehow.  There is quite a bit of cultural context that is needed to fully appreciate the storyline, and I think some of that is lost on Western readers such as myself.  Additionally, there is a fair bit of "tell don't show", where characters speak exposition, or line out their motivation for things, which feels a little awkward.  But, some of the scifi ideas are pretty neat.
第592条评论: The Three-Body Problem is a haunting, beautiful and superbly written work of literature. And yes, it is science fiction, although the SF elements of the story do not begin to appear until Part II.  Cixin Liu brings a fresh perspective to the SF genre, infused with a Chinese sensibility and world view heavily influenced by the events and aftermath of the Cultural Revolution.For readers who love the science in science fiction, this book is a real treat. The translation by Ken Liu produced a work for English readers that reads and flows beautifully while preserving the author's creativity and style. I consider Cixin Liu to be an important new writer (new to English readers), and I plan to read much more of his work.
第593条评论: This book captivated me from the beginning, specially when it gives a bit of an insider's perspective of the cultural revolution in China. However, I did find the ending lacking. I won't go into spoilers here, but I didn't feel like buying the second book... yet. I will probably get it at some point, and maybe I will be pleasantly surprised. But no, it didn't left me too motivated to do it right away.
第594条评论: Whether you're a sci-fi fan or not, this book is worth a read.Bewitching in every passage and incredibly well-crafted. You will not believe how much you will want to read the rest of the trilogy until you start it.
第595条评论: Great new book in the "searching for first contact" genre of science fiction. Translation was very smooth, with good translator's notes in footnotes and a helpful list of characters at the beginning. My only criticism is that there is an awful lot of "wind up" in this book for the payoff pitch. I have not read the other books in the series yet (will do so) but suspect that it might work better as part of the whole rather than a stand alone book.
第596条评论: I have bought and read the entire trilogy of three-body in Chinese, but could not help but buy the English version of the first book. My worries that it might lose some of its original flavor after translation had gone when I finished this book. Great job by Ken Liu in the translation! Hope the quality of translation will maintain in the 2nd and 3rd book.  This book is just the beginning. Your mind will be completely blown if you read the 2nd and the 3rd book, with spectacular scenes, surprising plots, thrilling but reasonable theories and hypotheses, deep insight in science, history, philosophy, human nature and the universe. The scope, content and reach of those books will go far, far, far beyond an "alien invasion story" as many described this book.
第597条评论: I imagine that most other non-5-star reviews that have been posted come from non-sci-fi readers, like myself. And I'll admit that this book was difficult to engage with; I normally do not enter this genre, and this book contained several reminders of why.However, as an individual who loves to entertain new thoughts and perspectives, this book was its own version of heaven. The ideas, concepts, and mindsets were fascinating--and I still abide with them long after I closed this book. This book has a resonance that is truly remarkable. And important.And for that, I am grateful. 5-stars, if stars still mean anything...
第598条评论: It's starts out extremely interesting. And there are some extremely cool concepts that open your mind and make you think about things differently. I also like getting a Chinese perspective.Sitting here, writing this review now, I'm not exactly sure why I'm giving it three stars instead of four or five... but it's just some feeling.... I just wasn't completely blown away or anything. Perhaps it was because the prose wasn't necessarily stirring, artful, or stylish; it was just sort of plain. But I did wonder how different and/or better it would be in the original Chinese.It may also be because this is the first book of three, and really, this is just the beginning, so [MAYBE SPOILER ALERT] nothing is resolved.I heard this was hard science fiction.... but, I don't think so; it gets pretty highfalutin in its concepts and execution.
第599条评论: A good book but not a great one. Not Hugo/Nebula caliber in my opinion but still a fun read. For me too much was just not very believable and there were too may plot holes. It was not believable that the aliens evidently find our planet habitable when they evolved in a very different environment and clearly have vastly different physiology. Also not believable that with their evident intelligence level .1 the speed of light is the best they can do. Not believable that intelligent characters believe the aliens will somehow be able to fix humans or that they will be a benign, peaceful race when they have evolved in an incredibly tough environment that might not exactly favor that kind of behavior. I also didn't get the whole game thing. It helped tell the story but I didn't really get the point of it.
第600条评论: There are a number of things that set this trilogy apart from others. It is written from a Chinese perspective, and only recently translated. The point of view is very Chinese, different from other SciFi I have read, a fascinatingly alternative  point of view. But what really grabbed me about this trilogy is the very, very different view of the Universe and the other intelligent species out there. This is not a friendly universe. The physics is interesting and convincing, the incredibly creative concepts about how different intelligent cultures might interact is fascinating and terrifying.  A must read.
第601条评论: I'm looking forward to the next installment of this series. The author's background is a mixed blessing here: the good part is that this is a somewhat different breed of sci-fi. Something new, if you will. The downside is that there are a lot of references that a westerner might not get, and keeping tabs of the names was a little problematic (for me, at least).Having said that, the translator did a great job of adding footnotes to explain many of the cultural references. The result? A slow-starting, realistic-feeling, enjoyable story. Did I mention that I am eagerly awaiting the next book?
第602条评论: Very original in more than just it's setting.Not just a rehash of sci-fi cliches. There's some really fascinating ideas here... And the story is great.
第603条评论: I'll admit the unique setting and the early presentation of some of the key ideas in the book intrigued me, but thorughout my read I kept getting more and more disappointed. None of the characters are fleshed out enough to really explain their motivations. The thing that grated on me the most was that almost all the characters seemed like bickering idiots, maybe in an effort to make sure one of the main characters seem like he had amazing street smarts in contrast. There's definitely more that was disappointing but I'm not sure I can get into it without spoilers. Anyway, I do not recommend.
第604条评论: Very inventive, scientifically challenging. A richly told story. The writing, as a translation, is very matter-of-fact, not as evocative as the same story written by a native English writer might have been. Still, the story is engaging, the pace is good, and this is a very good read.I think that part of the praise that's been lavished on this novel is rooted in the Chinese origin of the story and author. That, in itself, is a "novelty", no pun intended, that helps fuel interest in this book. That said, it is a captivating story, and I almost wish no one noted the book's origin, which in some ways is a mere distraction.
第605条评论: Just finished reading this trilogy twice and I'm so glad I did. There are just so many details that I missed on the first read. Highly recommended series!
第606条评论: A good story by Chinese science fiction writer Cixin Liu. It is always refreshing to read from writers from other countries and cultures. The book has a good story, as well as the characters, it mixes the cultural revolution and the actual China in the plot as well as a good research into physics. There's a sequel book which I'm sure gives closure to this one, that the only thing I did not like, that the book end up suddenly and you're left a little bit hanging on what's the ending going to be.
第607条评论: After slogging though far too much science narrative while finding virtually nonexistent character development, I had to laugh when I read that the author started life as an engineer. I finally started skipping the science to find some plot development, sort of like skipping the cetology when reading Moby Dick. Despite these criticisms,  Liu has created realms that can expand any willing imagination. But the book would benefit from an editor with a machete, to chop through the technical kudzu.
第608条评论: Made me think about things that I only day dream about when I realize how vast the universe is, filled with even more vast immensely small particles, which make up our day to day lives. Just a pleasure to read.
第609条评论: I picked this up because of combination of what I heard on NPR and what I heard from Adam Savage (via YouTube). I liked that it was from a non-western perspective but also because it addressed a different aspect of alien contact. Be warned this is not an easy read. There is no jargon and the translation reads smoothly, but the concepts are profound (at least to me) and the science is not "fantastic" (for the most part).
第610条评论: One of the best science fiction books I have read in the last year. If you like thinking about the mysteries of physics then you will probably like this book. I was interested in the story through every chapter. Unlike some books where you have to read 100 pages before the story gets going this was on the move from the first few pages. Makes you think about how stupid human beings must be to have sent anything out into space including radio signals for ET to discover.
第611条评论: Refreshingly written in lovely language that allowed me to immerse myself in the story comfortably. A thoughtful storyline that is firmly bedded in an Asian history that not many westerners get to experience but relatable to all readers.
第612条评论: Cerebral read, I enjoyed it! The translated English flows good as well. No complaints.
第613条评论: Read all three books. Great series.
第614条评论: Not a fast page turner, I suspect because of the translation. However, the Author has a great imagination of nanoscience and how it might be applied.  Memorable scientific ideas to tease the brain.
第615条评论: I read this a year ago and can't get it out of my head. It's the smartest, scariest alien invasion story I have ever read!
第616条评论: It was an interesting set-up.  Some of the secondary characters seemed a little one dimensional.  Enjoyed it enough to read the second book.  Couldn't make it to the third.  Read the ending online.
第617条评论: An excellent read. There are a few places where the translation seems weird, but it isn't jarring. The concepts are very cool and new. The only knock I have against it is the rather abrupt ending.
第618条评论: Interesting ideas.  I really liked the events that take place within the game.  Also interesting to read SciFi from a Chinese author. Wweak in two areas:  Relationships between the characters are not fleshed out, and the "scientific" descriptions of the different aspects of the story were also weak.
第619条评论: Episodes of three body game are excellent and interesting. But the real three body world is a bit boring.Science will prevail
第620条评论: Wow, simply a fantastic trilogy. Such interesting ideas are explored --mainly science fiction -- but also Chinese culture and thought to some extent. The best book that I have read on years and I read a lot.
第621条评论: Very good sci-fi book from a cultural revolution angle. Author and translator did a great job. Can't wait to read the next one.
第622条评论: I thoroughly enjoyed the story.  The insight to the Chinese thought process described.  Also, the common feelings of humanity shared no matter who or what you are.
第623条评论: This book is the most original treatment of mankind's first encounter with another sentient dweller of our universe I have ever read. The author's intricate tapestry of science woven from celestial mechanics, subatomic quantum mechanics, relativity, computer science, and more overlying the backdrop of Chinese history and culture make it a groundbreaking novel, specially for fans of western (sic American) sci-fi. A must-read!
第624条评论: Every era puts invisible shackles on those who have lived through it, and I can only dance in my chains.Great Quote.I dimly grasp the view of the Author, and embrace the stories many leveled and well worth the read. Thank you.
第625条评论: I'm very conflicted with this book. I so wanted to enjoy it but it was extremely hit and miss for me. I loved some of the character interaction immensely, but at other times found it extremely wooden.Go into this understanding that it is hard sci-fi. And for me there was too much science and not enough fiction.There would be times where I found myself finally connecting with the characters only to then have them ripped away from me by 2 chapters of scientific exposition. By the time I slogged through that I had lost the connection I had just made with the characters.I enjoy reading the science that drives a story, but I just found that there was far too much here and it broke up the flow of the book for me.Ironically for me, the final few pages had some of my favourite character work, but at that point I was too exhausted to care much.That said, I'm glad I read this, and I'm left with a dilemma because if the areas of strong character work that I loved are carried through to the second book more consistently, and the exposition is toned down, I would love to read it.However I'm not sure I'm willing to take the risk.
第626条评论: Much like my headline says, I found the reading of this book a bit murky from time to time. Maybe it was some trouble with the translation, maybe it was just the style of the author's writing, or maybe I was just not in the mood. But regardless, putting this technical aspect aside, this is was without a doubt a book to remember.The first big thing about this book is that the story and setting is alien and unfamiliar for regular western-literature readers as I am, giving you a glimpse into a time period and location that is fresh and different. I found myself amazed at the different ways how the author approached sci-fi, as well as the ways how it stayed roughly the same to what I'm more used to.And that's the second big thing about this story: Most of its sci-fi concepts are all strikingly 'different' to anything I've seen or read before. Not only are they exceptionally well-thought out and they dig into areas of science that I don't think any other author has tried to carve before; the whole... tone is also very different to the usual techo-utopia/brown-dystopia dichotomy we're been familiar with. It's hard to describe, but I think this novel belongs to some blurred third category I hadn't even thought about before, and for that alone, I think this book was marvelous :)
第627条评论: I liked the last half of this book, the story and character development.  However, I am not trained in physics and higher math.  I found reading through the hard science to be just that, hard.  I almost stopped reading.  I'm glad I didn't though.  Once the existence of the Solarans is discovered anod we leave behind most of the intricacies of the Cultural Revolution, this book becomes much more enjoyable.  Have you thought at all about what contact with another species from another planet might be like?  This book has me rethinking many of my suppositions about them being kind and wanting to help us advance.  Maybe they won't be so altruistic after all.
第628条评论: I'd first heard of Cixin Liu a couple years ago and knew that he was a well respected and awarded Chinese author, and after I'd read a couple of his shorter works I was very keen to read The Three Body Problem when it's English version appeared. I can most assuredly say that we've got here one very good hard science fiction novel, and it's only the beginning of a longer saga that sounds like it's going to be a real beauty. Being hard sci-fi, which is not usually my preferred flavour, I found some portions of the story a tad arduous, but not exactly difficult to read. These portions were specifically where we're taken into the virtual reality world of the Three Body computer game, and the main protagonist's adventures and discoveries therein. However, further into the book the information given through these scenes makes absolute sense and is actually a crucial part of the story, which paints the background superbly and fits with the whole story really well. The Chinese Cultural Revolution is an unusual but appropriate backdrop, and it's superbly written so that we can connect easily with the characters and their trials and tribulations of that period. I was going to award four stars to this book due to the previously mentioned "arduous" sections, but the whole story came together so well toward the end that it earned the fifth star. The next book in the series is due out in English in July 2015 and I will be reading that to see where this fascinating story goes next. Based on what I've read of Liu's so far, I reckon it's a safe bet that it'll be fantastic.
第629条评论: I was on the fence about this book for a couple of years but I finally took the plunge and am extremely happy that I did!  The reviews seemed to be a bit of a mixed bag and I saw some people suggest that it lacked interesting characters.  Having read this book as well as its two sequels I can firmly say that this is not the case.  There are several compelling and interesting characters in this book.Above all else the plot, world-building and pacing of the book are completely top notch.  To have a hard sci-fi book that is not about space marines and laser guns but still manages to be a page-turner that you can't put down is an amazing achievement!  This book represents the best in science fiction.  It's about big ideas and examining possibilities.  I refuse to discuss the plot but if you have an interest in science and technology and love the hard sci-fi genre, stop reading this review and order the book immediately!I will provide one disclaimer.  If you have no interest in science whatsoever or just lack an aptitude or understanding of it, this book series may not be for you.  You don't need to be a rocket scientist to enjoy this book but you probably will need to have at least a baseline understanding of some basic scientific principals and/or a willingness to google some stuff.Anyway, get it!!
第630条评论: I see a comment that says it took until the last forty pages to all come together like that’s the mark of a bad book. How?If you can manage to keep me in suspense and still reading for 300+ pages such that I am still there at page 302 and you originally wrote in Chinese and I am only reading a translation of the real thing like mind blown hats off to you sir.The story? Crazy, genre bendingThe science? Beyond physics. Mind blowingThe characters? Subpar I’ll be honest not well developed but the fact I can write a whole sentence degrading your character building and mere words when it comes to the story or idea is telling. You built a beautiful world that adheres to modern science while maintaining the mysticism of a forgotten year. The product is inexplicably beautiful and intricate, a Gordian knot, a Byzantine web, that I would wholeheartedly adopt as an only child... yet it has 2 siblings, a trilogy left to explore. I respect you for the science because this is above all else hard sci-fi and if the first 250+ pages don’t prove that to you the last 60 or so will. That’s not an embellishment it’s a fact don’t get 270 pages deep and cry about all the physics all of a sudden. Embrace the challenge, embody the science. It’s a challenging read it was originally written in Chinese and translated to English be prepared for that. The world is foreign and the culture that pervades the writing is exotic yet the messages are ubiquitous. Take that to heart and embrace the three body problem
第631条评论: The good: the book's story is around humanity's first contact with an extraterrestrial civilization. Liu develops a creative astronomical setting for this other civilization, which enables interesting phenomena. In the final chapters, the author also explores some fascinating concepts around the manipulation of protons. So, technically, the book is quite good.The not-so-good: the technical ambition of the book is not followed on by a bit of sophistication in the character and story development. Shallow characters are a bit common in hard sci-fi, but in this case, it goes a bit further. The plot is naive. The story about different "factions" on Earth, their strategies and their behavior seems to be taken from a cartoon. It is almost childish.The book is still good. It give it 4 stars. And I may follow on and read the next two books on the trilogy.
第632条评论: This was well written but I am wondering why at the very end the Trisolarans did not use the 3 dimensional proton or several sophons to unfold with commands around their own planet to solve the heat and cold problems since they had that ability so close to them rather than try to go to earth. They apparently had water and could also use the sophons as mirrors off of any stars  if any of their suns went out for a time. Maybe that happens in a later book.
第633条评论: The book is starting with some colorful narrative about the worries of the cultural revolution in China. Even further: at least ½ to ¾ of the book cannot really be considered science fiction.But the book is good. Well written - at times the fantasy of the author run a bit wild - but overall it is a brilliant piece of literature.If only the second book would be available for Kindle.... :(
第634条评论: As a scientist, I loved the scientific discussion. Also the discussion of how contact from an extra-planetary beings will change our society, politics and world view is interesting. This is a very thought provoking book.
第635条评论: Reading through the first half, time flies in an engaging way. It is interesting to read a Chinese author and the plot is interesting. But then it sort of gets stuck in the mud. It was extremely difficult to finish reading the last 40 pages.
第636条评论: Though billed as the 'A Game of Thrones of China' - this book shares little with its predecessor other than ground-breaking quality.At its heart is physics. What importance does an understanding of physics have in societal development? What happens when you play with the rules - not break them, but play with them and see them from a different perspective.The results? A ground-breaking page turner with universal themes that gives its characters a place in the cosmos. The Cultural Revolution might be the backdrop, but The Three-Body Problem is far bigger than even this. And yet, it's accessible and you don't need an advanced degree to understand it - I highly recommend it.
第637条评论: At least they aren't trying to hide the fact that this is is straight CCP propaganda."Hmmm seems like the model is reaching the end of its effective lifespan. Shall we build a new model? Naw, burn it all down."
第638条评论: I made the mistake of buying this trilogy in a bundle.  I forced myself to finish 3 Body and tried to begin the second book when the realization that I just couldnt do this anymore hit me.  I don't read much scifi, although I grew up reading Asimov, Clarke, Bradbury, Herbert, et al.  So, I know that you should not be looking for top level lit.  This guy is lower tier scifi.  ThInk Kilgore Trout delivering bundles of Chinese daily papers in P.K. Dick's old station wagon.  The dialog is wooden, character development is absent, plot is feeble.  Most particle physicists are barely-tethered metaphysicians, but Liu's microphysics is cartoonish metaphysics.  I see that Martin gave this a good review.  If you compare this to to the rich tapestry of SoIF, you wonder how he could possibly do that.
第639条评论: Where do I start? The scale of this three book saga is just so large that it'll keep you awake at night, dreaming about the stars when you finally sleep and question the existence of everything around you when you're back up.It starts during the turmoil of the Cultural Revolution and ends at a ten dimensional multiverse.I cannot fathom how Liu Cixin is able to take theories from hard fiction and spin them into something that goes far beyond what a normal mind can see.Can't wait for the next one. If you're even remotely interested in sci-fi, please do read this one.
第640条评论: I bought this book on a recommendation and because I had never read science fiction by a Chinese author.  And I am so glad I did. I cannot imagine what it must read like in the original Chinese, but I got the distinct feeling that very little was lost in translation. Regarding the narrative: If you prefer science fiction with a rip-roaring adventure plot, this work is not for you.  But if you enjoy science fiction that offers a profound thesis, articulated through well-drawn characters, and set in an historically accurate socio-political milieu, then buy this book. I am now well into the second book of the trilogy, and it is proving to be as fascinating as the first.
第641条评论: This is a book of immense reading pleasure. The author is a true book writer, not a SF storyteller. Although the book is centered around a major SF agenda, its human participants are real people and their feelings, life experiences and actions are beautifully articulated throughout the book.The scientific imagination of the author is incredible and his deep science and history schooling makes his work plausible during reading.
第642条评论: Oh what an experience...The first chapters were really hard for me. It was the first Chinese book I ever read and it took me a while to understand some of nuances of a different culture from a country I have never visited, but as soon as I got over it, this became an experience. For me it was a lesson in humanity, a philosophical exercise that explores everything from relationships, social hierarchies and high Sci Fi concepts.A must read.
第643条评论: How in the world did this book average 4+ stars? My apologies, but I can’t tell you because I apparently read something completely different from everyone else!Absolutely zero character development, I mean nothing! Just flat personalities all-round. In fact, I couldn’t begin to emphasise the two-dimensionalism present in this book even if I was blessed with the eloquence of a Joyce or Shakespeare.Oh, and it might be good to have at least a PhD - no, that is a bit much, make it a Masters in physics - because the amount of academic regurgitation is borderline criminal!And what the hell is this video game plot all about...are you kidding me?!? Dehydration!?? Utter-Rancid-Rotting-Garbage!!!To leave my sardonic humour aside for a second, perhaps it really did not translate well from Chinese...similar to how Crazy Rich Asians (also garbage, but entertaining garbage!) was hugely profitable in the US, but an absolute bomb at China’s Box Office.I’m so alone...someone please help me...please explain how I was led astray by so many?!
第644条评论: ,  I decided to read this book because of some hype. Its not my cup of tea. It was a plain story mixes with a Chinese history lesson.
第645条评论: The story is intriguing, but the writing is really lousy.  Part of it is the translation.  I was curious, so I read the first few chapters in Chinese, and concluded that it’s really equally lousy writing in Chinese.  I think part of the problem is that sci fi traditionally has always focused on the story and not so much on the writing craft, but in this case, I just found myself halting every few sentences and wondering why they didn’t find a better editor.  The biggest distraction to me was the filtering that occurs in one sentence out of four.  I can’t understand why the writer/translator couldn’t just describe the scene rather than telling us the character “sees” it.  We know that, so a full 5% of the words in the book are used to filter and remind us there is a writer rather than getting out of the way and letting us experience the scene.
第646条评论: Words are not possible to describe the power of this book. And the same goes for the larger trilogy of which it is the first volume. Reading this trilogy has reminded me that there are literary treasures in the non-English speaking world that we ignore at our peril. I do not usually read in the sci-fi genre, but I made an exception for this book and I'm glad I did. In some ways, Liu's imaginative writing transcends any one genre. This is storytelling at its best. On every level, this novel is deep, rich, imaginative, and beautifully written--breathtakingly good.
第647条评论: The concepts were neat. The science was on point. The writing was crap. This author does not know how to tell a story. Despite how cool some of the concepts in the book were, I had to force myself to finish. There is no way I could bring myself to pick up the second book, it would feel too much like starting a job I know I'm going to hate. The next time this dude has some good ideas he should sell them to someone that knows how to tell a story.
第648条评论: Thanks Cixin for the fascinating story ! Haven't been so engrossed reading a book for a long time.Here is a piece of news today that I believe would feel like deja vu to fellow readers of the three-body problem:[TU Youyou] discovered one of the most effective treatments for  malaria while working on a secret military project during China's  Cultural Revolution  The 84-year-old pharmacologist was awarded half of the prestigious  8m Swedish kronor prize for her discovery of artemisinin, a drug  that proved to be an improvement on chloroquine, which had become  far less effective as the malaria parasites developed resistance.
第649条评论: I really loved this book and couldn’t put it down. Definitely had to look up a few things to understand the references but overall a great read. Can’t wait to start the next book.
第650条评论: Pretty good story,  but as sci fi  goes I like William Gibson better. I will prolly read the rest of the trilogy.
第651条评论: Liked the story and  the very different writing style... yet regret having purchased his books since I have since learned he is a big supporter of Communist Chinese gvt policies of repression and abuse of Uyghurs in Xinjiang province.  Cannot spend further money to support one with such beliefs.
第652条评论: As a fan of hard sci-fi I have to say I enjoyed the book very much. I could feel it wasn’t an American sci-fi from the first passage, and I loved it. The intonation, the structure, everything was “foreign” in the best way.  It was so much fun to read sci-fi from a Chinese point of view. So refreshing. I loved the police-man character Da-Shi (nickname) .
第653条评论: I loved this book. The translation was excellent. At times, the science could be intimidating but it added to the experience. Also fascinating to learn about Chinese history by proxy. Highly recommend
第654条评论: Maybe it’s a translation thing but the whole thing has the feeling of a Pokémon game or maybe Mario Galaxy. That said, it is imaginative and does leave you wondering from moment to moment.
第655条评论: I stumbled back into my dorm at 2:30 after a night of clubbing in Shanghai and found myself picking up this book because I couldn’t wait to figure out how the next chapter ended. It was that good.
第656条评论: I read more fantasy than sci-fi lately but this came highly recommended.  I did enjoy it but it wasn't in the realm of 'I couldn't put it down.' I'll probably pick up the next one but not right away.
第657条评论: I don't often leave book reviews but I couldn't help myself with this one. The Three-Body Problem is a masterful piece combining the familiar and unfamiliar. As a lover of international politics and contemporary affairs, I found the story and challenge posed by the book compelling and captivating but ultimately the greatest value of this work is in its richness. It is difficult not to lose oneself in the world of the Three Body Problem.
第658条评论: It starts exciting...then slows down and meanders through relationship. Then ends up with a huge flourish. Great highlight of the use of material science for Sci Fi...character development is however not as good as it could have been. Second book will be more akin to general Sci Fi we are used to, but have not started yet. Author may surprise me.
第659条评论: This is one of those books that you can’t put down as you really want to know more about what happens next!!!Fantastically set up, beautifully written and capturing story... looking forward to part 2 and 3 of the trilogy!!!!
第660条评论: This book reminds me of the science fiction of my youth. Heinlein and others wrote books like this. Science fiction with real people in it. This is a Chinese book, translated to English and it is very well done and written, with no clinkers I have found at all. The story arch is strong with only a little drag here and there, the action is quick well drawn and the continuity perfect as far as I can see. If you like good, hard scifi then this book is one you will like.
第661条评论: I do not usually read (science) fiction but I had seen this book pop up on a couple different notable "celebrity book lists" and figured I would take a break from non-fiction. WOW! Finished the first one in two days while traveling. I've never been more happy for a snow storm delaying my flight than I have while reading this. Did not want to reach my final destination. Ordered "Dark Forest" before I ever got to finish 3-body and very bummed I have to wait until August to read the 3rd part. 10/10 recommend
第662条评论: This book along with the other 2 books in the series are my favorite in science fiction. It normally takes me a while to finish books but I could not put the book down.
第663条评论: I did not realize I was getting a historical review of china’s Govrnment trials and tribulations. Those were horrible times.  I respond to tragedy, real happenings, real people.  I wanted to be entertained.  I’ll read the reviews more thoroughly
第664条评论: This is a must read book for any intellectual in any field. It's the most unusual and brilliant book you have ever read.
第665条评论: Unique for most Westerners to read about scientists lives and thoughts from cultures other than US-Europe. Well done and footnoted for those not students of modern Chinese history. Of course, if you believe science is 'owned' by only part of the world, don't bother with a new realization read.
第666条评论: This is the first science fiction book I've read witten by a Chinese author. I appreciated the historical beginnings as it lent some context to the story. The three star rating might be a little higher, but there are some threads in the story that were not fully developed or a little weak. That said, I did order the next book in the trilogy which means I had some interest in seeing the outcome.
第667条评论: I am still reverberating from finishing this first volume, and cannot wait to read the others. The novel had a direct appeal to me as a student of Chinese political history, especially the Cultural Revolution. The mixture of 'hard' science and the fiction of an advanced, alien race was a delicious one for me
第668条评论: The Forrest of Hard Science Fiction has a bright new tree.  Rich in characters, exquisite in imagination, and rock hard science fiction.  Meet our new Neighabors and reexamine our beliefs, it's all here.  The first of three (so far).  Indulge yourself.
第669条评论: I grew up on The Foundation Series and left science fiction decades ago for more "pragmatic" reading and study.  Thank you to Liu for reawakening my imagination and exploration.  This story is an apt metaphor for so many aspects of life, known and yet to be understood. I anxiously await what is yet to come in this trilogy.  Again, thank you.
第670条评论: When the aliens described in most other science fiction stories are just humans with different skin color, this book tells us what the true universe society might be like. The war among different species wont be like shooting each other with laser guns, the power of true physics is way beyond our imagination.This book made most of other science fiction stories like fairy tales.Incredible, this trilogy will become classic sooner or later.
第671条评论: I enjoy fantasy novels to give me a break from "serious" reading.  Eragon, LOTR, The rapture series. This is another series I am looking forward to reading the next two.
第672条评论: It's an interesting concept but the execution doesn't really work and it's a long story to get through for what is an unsatisfactory ending. I gave it three stars instead of two because I realize something may have been lost in translation.
第673条评论: This is not a book for action style sci-fi lovers (and btw Amazon information about the reviewers references would be very helpful) . A different book that is an excellent read -  starts with chinese history but it fits perfect as a background to the story. Highly recommended.
第674条评论: Hard sci-fi tale which tackles issues of how the people of earth treat each other (in this case the Chinese Cultural Revolution).  The context of an external, superior civilization is a fascinating backdrop to issues of how we want to live on this planet.
第675条评论: This book is a blend of modern Chinese history and an introduction to a new alien species.  I will read the next book in this series.
第676条评论: An outstanding book. Very well written, very imaginative story. No wonder it won the Hugo.
第677条评论: There are some very original ideas at the core of this story, and quite imaginative and unique connections to corners of physics too rarely used in science fiction, from folded dimensions to the impact of truly alien environments. Unfortunately the characters are shallow and inconsistent, used as puppets without believable motivations; the aliens aren't alien; the verbosely-described science is generally just deep technobabble, applying what seems to be a frequently misunderstood popularization of concepts vital to the plot; and worst of all, the translation tries to stay so literally true to the source that it comes across as laughably cardboard, especially dialogue.
第678条评论: This is classic, 1940's style sci fi from a Chinese perspective.  The fact it IS a Chinese story told in translation is the best part of the tale - it offers a surprising glimpse into another culture's view of a first contact story.  Unfortunately, in old sci fi fashion, all but one of the characters are nothing more than stick figure puppets with neither personality nor goals, while the story itself becomes increasingly focused on the technical details of its premise.  Astrophysicists should love it.
第679条评论: Liu's excellent and original work transported me to two completely foreign worlds -- China in the 60's to 80's, and Trisolaris. And it was an awesome and mind-expanding journey!
第680条评论: great booksThe stories adhere to Einsteinium relativity with very surprising results!
第681条评论: Takes awhile to get into the pacing of this book, but worth it. This one will roll around in my head for quite some time.
第682条评论: Amazing book. I've read the whole part of this first book and loved it, however I don't like the part about Cultural Revolution. I know that the Revolution gave Ye the reason to betray us humanbings but hell, I just don't like the reason. When it went to the part about Ye made that CHOICE, man it made me flesh creep.Actually after reading the last pages I was almost sure that the rest two books would be even more interesting, the first book talked too much about things on earth lol. Hope the rest two can give us more WARS, ALIENS and SURPRISES!My fav character is Shi Qiang (also called Da shi). Very out-standing character, reminds me of my math teacher.
第683条评论: Very nicely done, with an extremely interesting premise.  I started reading this because it was on President Obama's list of things to read to preserve sanity in Washington DC.  From personal experience, I can tell you it also preserves sanity in Salt Lake City.  It's compelling, interesting, thoughtful, and scientifically fascinating writing.  Given a Chinese writer and a Chinese cultural setting, I'm in awe of what the translator has produced, as well as what the author himself did.  I've already started Book 2 of the trilogy - and expect that I'll not be disappointed.
第684条评论: If you are into strange and wonderful adventures you might consider this book.
第685条评论: The novel is way too dense and tedious. The first book was borderline, so I decided to give the second book a try. Unfortunately, I couldn’t take it anymore after I got half way into it. There is a blurted boundary between science and fantasy. IMHO this novel crossed that boundary. The plot is unrealistic and at times the action is a little bit irrational. For some reason I still fail to identify, the novel felt depressing. I got a very pessimistic vibe from it, and this was not associated with the fact that it is a doom’s day novel. I have read tons of doom’s day novels, and most of them illustrate the determination and tenacity of mankind…our capacity for adaptation and our resolve to survive at any cost. I want to believe that this pessimistic mood would have changed if I would have kept on reading, but that was the feeling I had picked up by the time I dropped this novel. When I think back about this novel and try to “feel” what I got from that invisible narrative between lines, what comes to mind is: arrogance, loneliness, and discontent, and I have no idea why. I cannot explain it. I didn’t like it.
第686条评论: Do not read this book if you wish to live peacefully. It creates some concepts and questions that you won't be able to answer in your lifetime and some of them are pretty unsettling. If you're ok with a prospect of some weeks or months feeling weird after finishing the trilogy - be my guest. One year since I finished the trilogy, it still is in my mind once in a while when I gaze at the stars.
第687条评论: I will save you several hours of wading through a book where way too much emphasis is placed upon exposition instead of moving the plot along. In effect, this book could have been a great short story but got padded out into book length instead. Simply put, a chinese technician who is part of a secret project contacts an alien civilization and invites it to come and conquer earth. Her motivation is the bad treatment her father and her received during the cultural revolution. Her organization is eventually discovered and at the end of the first book, steps are starting to be prepared to meet the aliens when they arrive several hundred years from now. That's it. Oodles of pages are spent on a VR game supposedly used to identify those who would be good candidates to join the organization. This game is so frustrating and to be honest - boring - that it's hard to believe that anyone would play it more than once. I do not understand the praise elicited for this book.
第688条评论: This book was fascinating and way beyond my layman's general understanding of physics. Unspent as much time looking to the door notes which helped. The story's characters were bright, compelling and one in particular was endearing.
第689条评论: this is an absorbing read that combines a novel premise with interesting characters that uses a combination of narrative and the characters' participation in a computer game that mimics reality to help us understand what is happening.  It is set in China which the translator  has done a good job of bringing to life.  It gives one something to think about when the book is finished
第690条评论: After reading several of Liu's short stories I had very high hopes for this trilogy. The premise is right in my wheel house of genre's that I typically like. I am not sure where this story fell flat but I had a hard time getting through it. The pacing of the novel was very slow and I feel as though the entire trilogy could be condensed into 1 good sized novel. There are long stretches with little to add to the plot. I am currently reading the second book in this series which seems to be more of the same. I am still hopeful because I really think the premise is fantastic but I have a feeling it is going to be a long road to get there.
第691条评论: We are very fortunate that this has been translated for the English-speaking world and indeed good science fiction can easily cross cultural boundaries. Interesting ideas and themes and the chance to learn a bit about Chinese history at the same time. I loved that a major character is an elderly woman, what a refreshing change from the young, white male stereotypes which can dominate this genre. Future translation notes should not focus so much on the American audience - there are millions of English language readers that are not American and the translator's occasional references to the target American audience were a bit alienating.
第692条评论: Although it was a little dense to get through sometimes in the beginning, it starts to take off really well after a few chapters. So hang in there.
第693条评论: Fascinating science fiction.  All the complexity of John C. Wright, yet with sentimentality evocative of Ursula LeGuin.Believable characters who are transitioning through life and history validate the story and the outlandish elements.i look forward I reading more!
第694条评论: I was immersed from the start and thoroughly enjoyed the story,  and the characters. Well worth the read.  I can't wait to read the rest of the series.
第695条评论: This book rewarded me with a thought-provoking tale as well as a better understanding of a glorious culture sharing the planet with my own. I will be forever grateful to the author for taking me on a wonderful journey of discovery.
第696条评论: Classical sci-fi at it's best. Very-very capturing. I have read tons of sci-fi and fantasy over last 20 years but it has been a long time since something really fascinated me to the bones. That was it. Therefore I also wrote my first book review at Amazon :)
第697条评论: If you are a person, doesn't matter if you are a sci fi reader or not, you have to read this book. This book truly makes you think about many things and certainly will expand your perspective on, arguably, everything you know.
第698条评论: This was not my favorite book, but it was amusing.  I found it interesting if for no other reason than it was my first Chinese sci-fi work.  It was interesting to see the cultural distinctions in this genre.
第699条评论: This interesting novel hides inside sometimes plodding science. It’s worth the effort to get through to the somewhat weird twist in the plot. The Chinese names are a little confusing if you don’t pay attention.
第700条评论: It is well written and some parts are very interesting and unique, such as the 3-body problem game.  But some parts were slow to me - I almost stopped reading it in a couple of places.  And I basically didn't like what the book was moving toward at the end (trying to avoid spoilers here).
第701条评论: I've been searching for legit science fiction-- like the works of Asimov and the sort. This is so very much like reading classic science fiction-- I thoroughly enjoyed it!!
第702条评论: From the rhythm of the story to the the way it's constructs, through the way history and culture were revealed in this book, The Three Body Problem takes you into a world you never visited before.
第703条评论: This is an interesting and very thoughtful story. I enjoyed seeing it from the Chinese perspective. I don't want to spoil anyone's reading. I will be reading this one again.
第704条评论: If you're interested in Chinese recent history and love hard scifi, this book is for you. The physics and math are not difficult at all and the author makes technical and science as well as cultural revolution topics approachable and personal. Liu Cixin and Ken Liu are new on my favorites list.
第705条评论: One of my favorite sci-fi books.  It was written by a Chinese writer which was refreshing.  I liked seeing things through his eyes.It would rank it with The Foundation, IRobot, Dune and Childhood's end.  Truly a scifi masterpiece.
第706条评论: I really enjoy this book.  Who knew that Chinese authors write science fiction involving the Cultural Revolution.  I intend to read more by this author.
第707条评论: He has taken a completely different approach to the whole alien invasion genre. The writing was very similar to Vernor Vinge in its depth and description of the whole environment. As a side note, I also learned a lot about the Chinese revolution which was quite interesting and disturbing. I am looking forward to the next book.
第708条评论: Its a over all good book.  I had a hard time reading it.  I think cultural differences and understanding the narrative may have had a lot to do with it.
第709条评论: Classic hard science fiction with several twists, including a gaming subplot which ties the story together. Sprawls all over (as far as Alpha Centauri) while still maintaining a place for individual humans to matter in the grand scheme of things.This deserves a much longer and better review, but I'm not the person to do it; this review is mostly to make my 5-star rating public.
第710条评论: The first half of the book is great. Introduces a situation and a set of characters that intrigue. However midway through the book, one feels rushed. As if the author (or translator?) chose to accelerate the story via a summarization that somehow leaves one unsatisfied. It felt like I was reading a synopsis of a book rather than the book itself!
第711条评论: This book makes me think of the Foundation series as written by Gabriel García Márquez.  The insights into the thinking of the Chinese characters is fascinating. I loved the trilogy, and thought each book was better than the previous one.
第712条评论: Excellent sci-fi/semi-historic novel out of China.  Get's extremely scientific at parts and can be somewhat mentally exhausting at times.
第713条评论: Not sure why this book has any positive reviews. Souless, sexless waste of time. Dehydrated people? Got about 3/4 through it.  Couldn't finish it.  Wish I could get a refund.
第714条评论: I’m shocked how dense with plot this book is, without losing character or veering off into the ridiculous. Highly recommended
第715条评论: Great book.  I do not usually read science fiction, but I am so glad I decided to listen to those who recommended this book.  I really enjoyed it and am now reading the second volume in the three volume series,
第716条评论: I read the book in chinese first,very very nice book! I read it all night and can't stop,when I finished in dawn,I looked at the sky ,something may be changed in it.so i become a funs of CiXi Liu .I buy it again in english version,try to read it again in english,beacuse I read chinese version more than four times.I hope the next book soon.
第717条评论: Pretty good read, but the ending was a disappointment.
第718条评论: As a scifi novel written from the perspective of a Chinese person who had lived through the cultural revolution this novel gives a totally novel viewpoint on scifi. Highly original and well developed narrative and characters.
第719条评论: This book ventures into some interesting and unexpected areas of science. I enjoyed it and look forward to reading the sequels.
第720条评论: A fascinating journey that weaves through the past to the present and the shadow of a nightmare future. Highly recommended.
第721条评论: I was totally unfamiliar with the author of this book when I decided to purchase it, and was totally "hooked" after I began reading it.  Trite as it may sound, I simply could not put the book down, that's how captivating good it is!
第722条评论: I can't remember the last time I was so surprised by a book. It tackles the very nature of existence, with ideas both playful and existential. While it is a bit slow to start and at first glance appears more political than imaginative, The Three-Body Problem has amply supplied my imagination with fodder for years to come.
第723条评论: Elements of this book harken back to the golden age of science fiction.  the authors weaves cosmology and quantum mechanics into a bold story of first contact set in the context of the cultural revolution.  the story is relentless in its pacing and intellectually appealing in its delivery.  a must read for anyone who loves science fiction.
第724条评论: Stellar book!  The prose has a really cool technical kind of style and a lot of the metaphors that the author uses hearken to scientific concepts which fits so perfectly with the books themes about the dangers exploration.  I can't wait to read the other two in the series!
第725条评论: I initially enjoyed this book.  However, I thought the plot broke down after a while.  The characters ended up being rather unsympathetic too - this just wasn't my type of science fiction.  I finally just lightly skimmed the the last 1/3 of the book - and came away unsatisfied.  As a person who often keeps and re-reads my books, I know this will be one I donate to the library.  I won't purchase this author again.
第726条评论: Wow. This book is extremely dense and specific when it comes to explanations of quantum physics. I wasn't ready for that sort of mind shift. Although it was an interesting read, I wish the characters had more substance to them. I got confused by similar names and nicknames, too. It's definitely an interesting story but it's not exactly the type of book you take to the beach.
第727条评论: This is a great SCI-FI book blending Chinese history with a deep imagination about other worlds, deep space communication and challenging physics problems.  Definitely a good read.
第728条评论: My first venture into Chinese science fiction and I loved it. I can't wait to read the next two. Thanks for the recommendation Amazon!
第729条评论: I must have read a different book than the one Barack Obama write fave reviews about. It also must be a different book than the one everyone left 5 stars about.I'm never one to leave a book halfway but this was so painful to get through that I skipped 5 or chapters just to see what happens at the end. And I still cant tell you what that was.The plot line is so confusing between the video game and the extraterrestrial research. The development of characters is non existent. And I'm sure a lot is lost in translation into English as well.Can't believe this is a trilogy, I don't know what else you could possibly write in the next two books.
第730条评论: After slogging through this book at the 75% mark it finally picked up a little bit.  It seems like the second book has been set up now and hopefully with the preliminaries out of the way it will be more engaging.
第731条评论: This book was a pretty good introduction to China/Chinese thinking about issues we all care about: love, free expression, the planet, duty, history. I don’t believe for a second that this book isn’t allegorical.
第732条评论: This is a science heavy sci fi book. There is a lot more science than the fantasy aspect. It is something that you could imagine happening in a similar society as the near future. The philosophical questions are good and the science and ideology around it is thought provoking. It does have a couple problems i think but i cant talk too much about them without giving away spoilers. Overall a good read and def worth the kindle price
第733条评论: I really enjoyed the combination of math, physics, and philosophy that made up this book.  It is a creative story well told.
第734条评论: Great story, somewhat hard to read due to Chinese naming conventions and story structure but worth the effort.  Hard science fiction for sure (actually a good review of chaos and three body problem.  It would be helpful if you were somewhat familiar with Chinese history and especially the Cultural Revolution.  Well worth the time invested in the story and in my opinion should be the Hugo winner for this year (probably wont though as the Hugo Awards of late seem to shy away from complex plots and foreign stories dont do well.  I have already preordered the second book (The Dark Forest) in the trilogy.
第735条评论: This book is amazing. There are some really great moments in it, and though the author states in his afterword that he isn't using science fiction to make a political statement, you could see it that way. But it sets up for the next two books, which I'm looking forward to eagerly.
第736条评论: This is the first book that I enjoyed reading. And I bought the second and the third series. Content is amazing. The writing style is so expressive, and so colorful, you find yourself totally immersed in the story. For English speakers, I would suggest you keep a note near you writing down who is who as it was a bit hard for me to get the hang of Chinese names at first.
第737条评论: This is a review for the entire trilogy. This is hard sci-fi involving quantum physics, higher dimensions, and unique ideas. Unfolding protons from 11 dimensions down to two? Sounds plausible. Well thought out, self consistent plot from begining to end. This is an author I'm going to be paying attention to. Kudos to the translators, too. When I read the descriptions, the similies, the metaphores, I think this must be exactly what the author intended.
第738条评论: This English version has been translated by Ken Liu, a very good science fiction writer. The Three-Body Problem won the Hugo award for best novel in 2015. The Hugo awards, granted by science fiction readers, have always been somewhat of a mystery to me. I don’t agree with the vote frequently, and over the last few years some of the results have become even ridiculous.I tend to agree more with the Nebula and the British Science Fiction awards, which are decided by writers and critics, not just science fiction fans as with the Hugos.Regardless, I didn’t really like this novel too much. The characters are mostly monodimensional, including the disappointingly unoriginal aliens, and the plot is rather preposterous.  Long and rather tedious chapters are dedicated to the description of a so-called game, which is not really a game. The central idea of the novel: a planet circulating around a system of three suns is very interesting, but this is not enough to justify a 390 pages novel. Actually, it is worse than that because the novel lacks an ending. It turns out that it is only the first of three novels.
第739条评论: What are the interesting concepts introduced by this book ? Why do so many of the reviews , even the poor reviews, state they found intestine concepts in this poor novel ? Please advise. What is interesting about aliens who seek to take over our planet ? This has been done far better by other writers. Why would the aliens tell the humans they are coming to destroy humanity ? Why give humans the time to plan a defense ? The aliens are not too bright, yet have developed the science to destroy the Earth from 4 light years away ? yet use the technology to slow down human development ? Why not just use the technology to destroy all of humanity ? The poor character development was expected , but the poor ideas and bad plot development makes the novel a below average work of science fiction. I read it because of the goods reviews which all stated that the writer introduced some new interesting concepts about first contact...Please let me know what were the new interesting concepts ? what did I miss ?
第740条评论: I enjoyed the story enough to where I now bought the second book.  It kept me interested and thinking about what was going on and what might happen.  But, it is more of a "fantasy" story than science fiction.  Still, a fun read.
第741条评论: I am a scifi junkie... and have read hundreds of scifi novels.  This book manages to be fresh. I loved it. I have now read all 3 in this series and wish  there were more...The very ending of the third book isn't what i would have written if it was my decision....but... all told... the 3 books form an amazing story. I saw some reviewers saying they couldn't suspend disbelief, couldn't understand the concepts, couldn't get thru the clunky translation, etc...  Personally, i never felt any of those things.  Phenomenal books.
第742条评论: It took great effort to read this to the end. I'll admit that the science actually got interesting at the end, but that's because it started to finally relate to the story. All the three body stuff and Trisolaris video game stuff in the first three quarters of the book was exceptionally boring. Ye Wenjie was the only interesting and fully realized character, but even her motivations were a bit forced.I was able to skip bits and lose nothing, especially in that middle chunk. I really like the idea of the story, but I'm not really that interested in continuing the story.
第743条评论: Found the initial setup slow but as I went on, things picked up and the early background was worth it.  Enjoyed the first part of the trilogy and have moved on to the next 2 components.  Interesting read, full of science.
第744条评论: While I think that this book presents cool ideas about first contact, ultimately I feel like the characters aren't well-developed, and are more vehicles for the author's opinions, logic, and counterarguments than actual people with emotions.
第745条评论: The book is remarkably fresh in the field of Science Fiction and that is hard to do.  However, for all its great innovation, it lacks the ability to draw me into its characters.  It is about the ideas more than the people.  So while I want to give it more stars I have to admit I won't be going on to book 2.  If you like world building and big ideas read it!  If you want to see your characters react and feel more when they face with these ideas this book misses the mark.
第746条评论: It’s praise is well deserved. Fresh hard sci-fi, a page turner, educational, offering a glimpse of China. Stimulate your senses Read the book.
第747条评论: A beautifully written and thought provoking novel.  I particularly liked the subtle but present effect the author's Chinese origins on the great narrative voice  (translation was terrific too).  If you are looking for SF for adults, then give this a try.  I also just read one of his novellas and found it also to have a compelling narrative voice and an imaginative premise.  If you are looking for space opera with empires, anthropomorphic aliens, etc...this is not the book for you.  However, if looking for what I at think is the heart and soul of good SF, then I highly recommend this novel.
第748条评论: It may just the difference in cultures between the reader and writer, but it's alternatively alien and familiar. The hard-boilded cop is strictly film noir. And there's some city mouse/country mouse in there too. On the other hand the VR video game is set, sort of, in ancient China. And then there is the Three Body Problem (which appears on the blackboard in "The Day Earth Stood Still"). It also is firmly rooted in the complete revulsion contemporary China has for the Cultural Revolution--and rightly so, as far as I can see. Can't wait to read the next in the trilogy.
第749条评论: If you look to sci-fi for fresh new ideas, then this will not disappoint. If you’re looking for interesting characters, good dialogue, and well written prose, this is not for you.
第750条评论: The Three body problem is a mix of surrealism and magical realism in a science fiction mystery set in China beginning with the cultural Revolution and culminating in the present. It follows several physicists who are confronted by an old problem, is the universe anisotropic or isotropic, chaotic or deterministic? It imagines what happens when physicists discover the laws of physics change and are not applicable universally at all times to all places but random variations localized with catastrophic consequences for science and human culture. It is well written and paced and unfolds with humor and poignancy.
第751条评论: Item was good quality and came in a timely manner.
第752条评论: Imaginative, unorthodox and very well written. Lot's of mysteries wrapped around each other. Unpredictable. Keeps you turning pages all the way through. Characters are very well built. Could have used more differentiating names for them...struggled a bit knowing who is who with such similar names.
第753条评论: Realistic characters, strong historical perspective, a believable point of view, and a high science content in a well written tale.
第754条评论: All 3 books in the trilogy are great science fiction.  I agree with some other reviewers that the third one is the most mind-blowing.  Wildly imaginative, as Obama said, but scientifically feasible.
第755条评论: Intriguing science fiction mystery told from Chinese perspective;  gradual counterintuitive plot reveal reminiscent of a Christopher Nolan movie.
第756条评论: Perhaps I heard and read too much praise for this book before I had a chance to read it, so as well as it's written, I didn't think it fully lived up to the lofty expectations I and many others had or would have.
第757条评论: As a big fan of science fiction I love what this book is anchored off of and the story the author paints. I’m looking forward to continuing the series
第758条评论: WOW! What an imagination Cixin Liu has. The translation makes this an easy and enjoyable 400 page read. The author not only understands alien civilization but has some understanding of our own. I will be reading more Cixin Liu as soon as I finish Seveneves.
第759条评论: First book in the series and it's good.  It led me to read the second book which unfortunately is not nearly as good... probably will not read the third.
第760条评论: This is an instant classic science fiction story. I enjoyed it and feel it must be well translated because nothing feels"off".  Great read!! Story moves well and had good balance
第761条评论: I had heard nothing but praise from sources I trust and who have similar tastes to my own, but this book was a major disappointment. The writing comes off amateurish, which may be due to translation, and nothing particularly exciting ever happens. Some of my favorite authors set things up for hundreds of pages but in the end they pay it off, this book lacks any moments that bring interest or excitement. This book would be just below average at this point, but then the 'Three Body' chapters happen and they are terrible for a multitude of reasons. I can't imagine this book being worth anyone's time, much less the awards it has received. Pass this one up.
第762条评论: Award winning Chinese science fiction author Cixin Liu has said, “Science fiction is a literature that belongs to all humankind. It portrays events of interest to all humanity, and thus science fiction should be the literary genre most accessible to readers of different nations.” I think this is true, or at least it can be. For science fiction to appeal to everyone on the planet it is necessary that its stories portray situations that are relevant to everyone, that they are written about in a way that doesn’t exclude those whose cultural or societal beliefs fall into one political camp or another, and, most of all, it requires a literate world in which everyone has enough of their basic needs met that they have time for leisure reading.We are a long way from the ideal state described above, but some books are a movement toward it. Cixin Liu’s “The Three-Body Problem “represents a step in that direction. Liu lives in the People’s Republic of China. When I think of science fiction audiences, China doesn’t come immediately to mind, but that is because of my ignorance, not reality. “The Three-Body Problem” not only won the Hugo Award after its translation into English in 2014, but it also won China’s Galaxy Award for best science fiction in 2006, the year of its publication in China. Cixin Liu has won the Galaxy Award, which I didn’t even know existed, 9 times.“The Three-Body Problem “is hard science fiction, meaning that it is literally filled with science, some of it real, much of it speculative with kernels of real science leading to wildly fantastic consequences. One of its themes is the overturning of the basic principles of modern physics, or at least the apparent overturning of them, since another theme is the deliberate undermining of belief in those principles. The underlying plot of the novel is the mutual discovery of another race in our galaxy, mutual in the sense that we discover them at the same time that they discover us.The ideas contained in this novel are mind-boggling. What appears fanciful becomes less and less so, as more science behind it is revealed, although the science too, get stretched until everything seems fanciful, but I as a reader, was never sure if it was based on realistic science or not. That’s part of the entertaining quality of the book. The extraordinary discoveries come one after another, gradually unfolding the true plot that is determining the characters’ actions.There are political criticisms in “The Three-Body Problem,” almost entirely of China’s Cultural Revolution of the 1960’s and 70’s. As such, they are a criticism of constraining science because of political or philosophical reasons. The author himself  has made some political statements, almost entirely in favor of Chinese government policies, which have earned him enough suspicion in the U.S. that several Republican Congressmen objected when they heard that Netflix was creating a film version of his work. But modern Chinese politics are not an issue in the novel. Liu’s comments at the end of the English translation of the book make it clear that he hopes science fiction such as his can bring the world together.A word about character development in “The Three-Body Problem.” The early portions of the book cover several years and skip from one character to another, many of them who die. Finally, the story settles down to a small set of regular characters. Some Western critics have complained that the characters are “shallow,” which may be valid when comparing the novel to many Western ones. I suspect that this reflects a difference between Western and Eastern cultures, as well as difference between science fiction as a genre (at least old-style science fiction) and other fiction genres. Our Western mindset is to attribute the causes of a person’s behavior to elements of their personality. They are adventurous, courageous, lazy, lackadaisical, psychopathic, etc.  Sociological research has suggested that many Eastern cultures tend to see the causes of behavior as due to events and circumstance or even luck, rather than to ongoing personality characteristics (it is a more vs less difference, rather than an either-or difference). Liu’s novel takes the latter approach, giving a detailed description of the circumstances leading characters to do what they do in the novel. It is not a lack of depth of characters so much as it represents a different  approach to character motivation that is reflective of the overall culture of the writer. In the case of “The Three-Body Problem,” this results in the novel gradually providing the basis for different characters’ otherwise puzzling behavior by providing after-the-fact stories of what happened in their lives to cause them to behave as they do.I found this book to be absolutely intriguing and impossible to put down until I got to its end. I am eager to read the two novels that are its sequels. It is science fiction at its very best
第763条评论: It's hard to know where to begin talking about The Three-Body Problem trilogy (officially known as the Remembrance of Earth's Past series), a truly staggering piece of science-fiction written by Chinese author Cixin Liu and translated to English by Ken Liu and Joel Martinsen (Liu did books 1 and 3, while Martinsen did 2). A trilogy that spans literally thousands of years, deals with quantum physics, game theory, sociology, religion, space exploration, space colonization, and more, all driven by the nature of first contact with alien intelligence - there's a lot going on in this series, and that's before you start realizing just how much Cixin (reminder: Chinese names are traditionally written with the family name first and the given name second) truly takes on the advanced science of his ideas. And yet, when you finish it, you realize that you've read something truly incredible - a piece of hard science-fiction whose ambition, scope, richness, and ideas are impossible not to find yourself thinking about for days afterward.The series begins with The Three-Body Problem, which opens during the Chinese Revolution, depicting the conflict between science and politics in stark, honest terms -a theme that the series will grapple with often, in wildly different ways. We flash forward, though, to a near future, where scientists are killing themselves for unclear reasons. What this has to do with the characters from that Revolution-era prologue, a government program attempting to reach out to the galaxy in search of alien intelligence, and a complex computer simulation of a civilization subject to bewildering rules of nature, Cixin takes his time to explain. But what becomes clear quickly is that The Three-Body Problem is, in a way, a novel about first contact, and how humanity will react to a race whose purposes for coming here may not be entirely benevolent.If you're thinking that all of this sounds like a basic setup for an alien invasion novel, rest assured, that is definitely not what you're getting with The Three-Body Problem. Instead, Cixin explores the social implications of such an arrival, and deals head-on with the complex questions that it would cause. Would humanity band together in the face of this, or would our already existing divisions fracture even deeper? Would people be terrified of this advanced race, or would they be viewed as gods? And would people truly feel that humanity is worth saving, or would they welcome a race who could bring out peace, even through subjugation? These aren't simple ideas, but Cixin makes them the meat of the book, along with advanced discussions about the alien planet, which is governed by three suns, leaving their homeworld incapable of safe habitation (the source of the novel's title).More than that, Cixin takes no shortcuts in his story, embracing hard science-fiction as a way of dealing with his scenario. Communication across multiple light-years, limited telescopic technology, the disconnect between human and alien intelligences, relativity, black holes - all of this is relevant to the book, and while Cixin makes it accessible, be aware, this book doesn't spoon feed you its physics. You're going to have to come with some willingness to think about the advanced concepts on display and ponder them, from gravitational forces to quantum computing. It's not pure technobabble, but it's a challenging read at times, and assumes its readers have the willingness to take on its science. If you do, though, what you'll get is a complex, fascinating book about first contact, one that's not quite like anything else I've read in how it handles the questions that such a contact would bring about. And while it's the first book in a trilogy, none of that keeps the book from standing on its own, leaving room for further exploration but existing as a single piece of work that's already remarkable on its own.To explain this series is a difficult challenge, to put it mildly. This is a series that spans a huge amount of time, deals with advanced scientific concepts in complex terms, grapples with rich philosophical and political ideas, debates questions without easy answers, and gives you a scope that can be daunting. It's a story of alien invasions, yes, but one in which the action sequences we're so used to are replaced with existential dread, a rethinking of our own lives, and a fear of the unknown that's hard to quantify. It's also the story of people caught up in these times, trying to give themselves a good life while never forgetting the larger questions of their era, and juggling their own fears with fears for humanity. In other words, it's what hard science-fiction is great at - thoughtful questions, big ideas, and speculation, all of which change the way you think about the world.This series is a truly incredible achievement, one that honestly left me a bit staggered and reeling as I attempt to think about it all, but one that I love all the more for what it accomplishes. If you're a hard science-fiction fan, or simply someone who loves dealing with the complex ramifications of common ideas, this is a must read series. I've never read anything like it in my life, and I'm a richer person for the ideas it's inspired me to think about.
第764条评论: I'm told there is a lot of great science fiction being produced in non-English speaking countries. Like most readers my age, I grew up on stuff that was written in the United States, and occasionally Great Britain, by white males. That's just the way it was back in those days. I'm guessing that most readers in the U.S. today still default to reading English language novels written by English speaking writers. We are typically not exposed to fiction from other countries and cultures, and even if a book is translated into English, we need to be made aware of that book before we'll pick it up and read it. I honestly can't tell you how many translated science fiction and fantasy books are sitting on bookstore shelves waiting to be purchased and read. Short of looking at every last one of them - and I'm not going to do that - I don't know how I would find out.But in 2014, a book from whom I understand is arguably China's most beloved science fiction author, Cixin Liu, received the translation treatment by Ken Liu (no relation), and was published by Tor. Before the book started getting some advance notice from folks in the field (I heard about it for the first time on The Coode Street Podcast last year), I'd never heard of Cixin Liu. I *had* heard of Ken Liu. Ken Liu is one of the most talented short fiction writers in the field today, with multiple Hugo awards already under his belt, as well as a Nebula, among others. However, I know absolutely nothing about the book translation process and how well the resulting work represents the original. Thus, I'll talk about what I do know, which is the story.And what a story it is. It's a throwback to 70s science fiction, a first encounter and alien invasion story all rolled into one (and that's not even true, since it's the first book of a trilogy, the second of which, THE DARK FOREST, hits our shores this year, translated by Joel Martinsen). It's got science - lots of science - and a bit of what looks like hand wavium going on at one point (until I started reading some articles in a magazine that were discussing something similar to what the hand waving was about - I think). It's grand in scope, has some terrific ideas, and really can make us stop and think about whether we're all alone out here.The story begins during the Chinese Cultural Revolution, and uses it as a launching pad for all that goes forward. A young woman, who sees her father killed during the revolution, is assigned to a military base in a remote part of China. The more time she spends there, the more she becomes trusted, and eventually she learns the true nature of the project - to send signals into space to contact alien life. The young woman, Ye Wenjie (thank goodness for the list of characters at the beginning of the book), learns of a way to amplify the signals that are being sent. She sends a signal into deep space - and hence the trouble begins.Over the course of the book we learn about the Trisolarans, an alien race that lives in a planetary system that has three suns. Trisolaran society is dying because of those three suns. Cixin Liu comes up with the clever idea of the Three Body game, wherein players are challenged to find solutions to the Three Body Problem (hence the name of the book) by interacting with characters from history in societies that keep dying off because of the unpredictability of the cycles of the three suns. (I should note that there really is something called the Three Body Problem; from wikipedia: In its traditional sense, the three-body problem is the problem of taking an initial set of data that specifies the positions, masses and velocities of three bodies for some particular point in time and then determining the motions of the three bodies, in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics (Newton's laws of motion and of universal gravitation).). The Three Body game is more than just a game - it is a gateway into a group of people who are working together to plan for the coming of the Trisolarans.I don't want to give too many more details, as I could start getting into spoiler territory, and I think the rest needs to be discovered by the reader. What I can say, however, is that book not only chronicles how and why this group of individuals came together, but it also explores how the Trisolarans plan to come to earth to take over. Yes, it's a hostile takeover, and there are no financial personnel involved, although this is where the hand-waving comes in and, in reality, I don't mind it in the least. Whether a super-intelligent computer can be made by unfolding a proton into two dimensions is not the point. Just thinking about the possibilities of being able to do that is the point, and indeed in a larger sense has been how science fiction has gone about its business since the field began. You know, "wow, wouldn't it be neat if we could do THAT?".The other thing I enjoyed about this book is the peek it gives to the reader into Chinese civilization around the time of the Chines Cultural Revolution going forward. Granted, it is just a peek, but I'd never given much thought to political, military, and academic life as well as the social status one acquires depending on who and where one was at any given time during that period of Chinese history.With regard to the translation, as I stated earlier, there's not much I can say about it. It's hard to be able to judge how well a book is translated when you don't know the original. I *can* tell you that I've enjoyed Ken Liu's writing style when I have read his short fiction, and I think that style comes through here. I can tell it was a good, fast paced, and interesting read. I was never bored, and actually looked forward to reading the footnotes as I was reading the main text. I did NOT have same eagerness while I was reading JONATHAN STRANGE AND MR. NORELL.If foreign language science fiction is like this, I need to read more. Even if it's not, I do look forward to the remaining two books in the trilogy, andhopefully there will be more translations of Cixin Liu's work coming our way in the future.
第765条评论: Really enraptured by this book.  Very much appreciate its easy to understand explanations for a layman such as myself but can imagine for anyone more scientifically inclined may feel a little talked down to.  Many sci fi writers over the years have made suggestions as to why we haven't had alien contact etc etc and quite enjoy this novels answer.  Won't go into detail but I think this book is worth a read for anyone.
第766条评论: I read Ken Liu's The Paper Menagerie prior to this book and found the work, by my own assessment, to be a highly admirable collection. When I saw Ken as the translator on another author's award winning book, I took it as a quite valuable vote of confidence in the work and was convinced I had to know what other writing out there had his seal of approval.And then I had the strange sensation of each time I sat down to read it (as is my means of consuming books in the open minutes of my day) realizing I could really take or leave my continuation, but that I couldn't quite tell what was putting me off. The writing still seemed wholly proficient in my eyes. It dawned on me a bit further along that I wasn't quite getting what I expected, a worthwhile read backed by an esteemed recommendation, but that I was getting exactly what I _should_ have expected; some random story I could take or leave, but told in the voice I had already established I enjoyed.So, due to my continued unshattered (though none the less injured) faith in that voice, I feel confident I can levy my many complaints in the read strictly at the feet of the adapted author. After all, it is a tangled mess of narrative and characters, that, to use an apropos metaphor, really is of a completely different world than that of the translator.Now, I could speak of every ham fisted character interaction. How everyone enters and leaves the scope of the protagonists vision so exactly as is convenient to plod the plot along that it's both jarring when it happens, and alienating as only just as the characters are given a smidgen of life, they disappear from the pages entirely without rhyme or reason. It's not the greatest offence to leave them behind though, as there's not exactly a single character in this book that I wouldn't summarize as 'cookie cutter.'Lets face it, if you can't compose a worthwhile character, your prose may be impressive, but in the world of the novel, it is nothing more than lipstick on a pig. You cannot under that circumstance claim to be any kind of writer. But for a moment, lets assess the particular writer that Cixin Liu claims to be: a science fiction writer.It is the role of any sci-fi writer worth their salt to write more intelligent or learned characters than themselves. One necessarily cannot master both crafts. Different authors grapple with this fundamental problem in different ways. The best efforts tend to skim just as deep into the details as is required to produce an immersive work, but no deeper lest it be an immersion breaker for the more advanced among the readers, and remain focused on the characters about which the stories are to be centered.The bad get themselves in over their heads, gaining some knowledge in the studies relevant to their tomes so that they can riddle their books with details that their readers are likely completely ambivalent to, if not annoyed by.And then the awful learn the basics of the relevant technologies, and then come across almost as begging acknowledgment through their characters, demolishing immersion altogether as supposed doctorates converse at a high school level. This grouping of authors, almost without fail, will write dialogs of experts waving away a more complex topic in their conversations as "the basics" and then go into pain staking detail over the early fundamentals in their fields. It becomes impossible not to see the beaming author behind the words.Just to alleviate any possibly lingering shred of doubt, I am indeed affirming Cixin Liu as a member of that third group. He's not just a light offender either. There's a stretch of full pages in the book where a more fundamental bit of a particular field (even if I strongly dislike a work, I can never bring myself to "spoil" it) is laid out in what can only be described as the most unnecessary detail, made even more unnecessary when, having described it, no connection between the described technology and its supposed accomplishment is actually established. There is no book in that moment, you can see right through the book to Cixin, smug with the technological wand he has just painstakingly waved.I feel it's worth noting that somewhere in those later pages I was hit by a second sudden realization about the book. The first was the realization that I could appreciate the writing to a degree while having no care for what it was writing, an experience that seemed so contradictory to any prior literary consumption, because I had chosen the book for the translator and not the author. The second was the answer to the by then screaming question in my mind "How on Earth did this win the 'Hugo Award for Best Novel'?" Well, as is the zeitgeist of our times, the honor has been bestowed by the relevant academy not for the value of the story, but for the social messages therein. I will spare you some guesswork and tell you it's not the most obvious one you may be thinking of. In this case, it is (often eyerollingly) strong messaging on environmentalism and antihumanism.Finally then, again avoiding spoiling, we hit the ending and we need some resolutions. And it has it all. And by all I mean every kind of of deus ex machinas. We have blue deus ex machinas, and green deus ex machinas, and polka dot deus ex machinas. Though Cixin is, of course, still trying to sell you that, no, those are just advanced machinas, no deus involved. And just to make sure you know that Cixin wants his gold star from you, there's a scripted in moment at the climax of the story where upon a character offers up his little bedazzled machina, excuse me, I mean plan, and there's an almost exactly stating of "and then everyone clapped." You again can't help but stare right through the page at Cixin with his hand expectantly held out for his acknowledgment.But for God's sake, don't be like Hugo. Don't give it to him. Don't give your time to this book. There's no reason for you to follow my frankly inane dedication to finishing what I started. But, if you have the time to give, I happen to know of a collection of stories by a certain translator that has none of the aforementioned problems...
第767条评论: This book is quite the journey of your mind and quite the stimulation. Give it a good read and definitely the other two which I will read soon.
第768条评论: My standards for fiction books have just skyrocketed to levels I never thought possible, I don't think most of my 4 and 5 star reviews are now valid, since this book has set a new curve.
第769条评论: Those writing about character development may have missed some allegorical literature such as Pilgrims Progress.  That’s not a psychological work that views the inner development of characters.  The characters represent something; they don’t grow.Those who complain about the believability of certain scientific theories or technologies are missing the larger them.  Satire such as this places characters that are similar in some way to real people or situations that require an oblique critique.The three body problem is not allegory or satire.  I just bring these forms of literature up to say that great literature is often complex and uses the elements of a story to create something beyond complex and believable characters (the personally, I did not find the characters to be stock characters or the science to be anything other than fantastical in many ways).First, this book is sociological in nature rather than psychological.  It explores how societies and civilizations develop under stress.  It does this, for instance, by leaving the actual physical form of the aliens a bit of a mystery.  The video game is a way of representing The unknowable nature of an alien civilization that no one has laid eyes upon.  They are not necessarily humanoids.  So, the reader is not tempted into trying to guess the best way to defeat the alien civilization.  And there is not some privileged position from which to critique one sociological reaction at the expense of a competing reaction.  Maybe it is worth attempting to defeat the aliens.  Maybe it’s better to eat, drink, and be merry.Second, the science, while fantastical, has an internal consistency.  That doesn’t mean that it’s all understood and explained.  It’s barely understandable.  But, would this not be the case if a medieval knight went into battle against a laser weapon for example or Aristotle were provided a lesson on quantum physics, not by a professor, but someone who just uses a device that relies on quantum mechanical properties, or a colonial tailor is presented with wearable Bluetooth AirPods..  You can refuse to believe in it.  But, you just have to accept the facts for what they are.  Just go with the flow and, by the end of book two, you will be impressed.Third, the protagonist goes through a considerable amount of development.  But, most of the characters exemplify a thought process that a certain percentage of the population would be expected to display.  For instance, take anyone with a strong political identity and identify the development.  There is not going to be a lot of development.  There is that ten percent of the population who will always be a libertarian no matter how much evidence there is that, for instance, government is needed.  Or that the gold standard works much worse than a central bank when when Alexander the Great roles though town.Fourth, and getting back to the sociological nature of this book, for all the vagaries of what the aliens are really like or how the science works, the author convincingly offers the axioms of a universal and interstellar sociology that predicts civilizational decisions with 100% certainty—at least that is the premise of this book.  I certainly can’t think of a clear and evident objections to the theory presented in this book.Easily five stars.  It’s a very good book!  I would recommend it to anyone who likes thought provoking literature with multiple and ambiguous philosophical positions that unfold with the mathematical precision of an extended logical syllogism.
第770条评论: Easy to follow the science, even for a layman. Even pace, mounting sense of dread. And after just the first book. Most thrilling speculative sci-fi since Tony Roth's " The World Is Round ". Highly recommend.
第771条评论: Scientific sophisticated. Embraces the authoritarian culture, suppression of individually. The invaders are worse. Where will this go when the war begins?
第772条评论: I am the pickiest of science fiction readers. The only fictions I get excited about are by Neal Stephenson, David Brin, Daniel Saurez and Robert J. Sawyer. Most others disappoint, they make me dumber...not smarter.Three-Body Problem and author Cixin Liu is now on my most recommended list. I have nothing but the highest praise for this author.Three-Body Problem is a reading experience much like David Brin's Existence and Neal Stephenson's Seveneves - a turn of human affairs greater in significance than any previous experience for the species. All three books deliver on their lofty mission.As an American, usually reading American-centric plots and characters, it has been a real pleasure to experience a plot with China at the center of its cultural Universe. I'm continuing to read more of Cixin Liu's books partially because of the desire to place China in a more dominant position in my mental framework. The other reason is he is of the most elite in the world when it comes to writing the hardest of science fiction.
第773条评论: Just finished reading “The Three-Body Problem” trilogy’s first part. i am not a big fan of fiction genre, but chinese author Liu Cixin made a book that i liked a lot. It can feel sometimes cheap or simple, but it perfectly corresponds the book description : “science fiction masterpiece of enormous scope and vision”. Highly recommend for science fiction or science book lovers. I want to write more, but wont spoil things what u will read in this book, just some words from the author:”I’ve always felt that the greatest and most beautiful stories in the history of humanity were not sung by wandering bards or written by playwrights and novelists, but told by science. The stories of science are far more magnificent, grand, involved, profound, thrilling, strange, terrifying, mysterious, and even emotional, compared to the stories told by literature. Only, these wonderful stories are locked in cold equations that most do not know how to read.”-thats it, enjoy the book ;)
第774条评论: Read the first two books of the series. Not sure where he's going with the third, but I'll get it when it comes out. The main flaw of the book was Liu's development of characters. Most of them were pretty flat and none of them were really well developed. They were just there to move the plot. The plot moved well, though. I really liked the two books as science fiction. Aside from a few plot devices like the solons, he pretty much stuck with real physics. It gave the books a sense of reality that is lacking in a lot of science fiction today. And although the setting of the books, a war that could lead to the destruction of humanity, is pretty grim, he presented a pretty optimistic vision of what science could do for a society. That also is a nice change of pace from what you see in most sf today. I thought a shift from Chinese to English would be had to read, but the translation was very good.
第775条评论: This book is a masterpiece of true science fiction. While almost fully based on Chinese characters and environments, which becomes a plus for any westerner interested in The history of China. The author makes an excellent work in describing the situation of China during the difficult (to say the less) times of the Cultural Revolution, his literary capabilities exceeded my expectations: excellent descriptions, depictions of human feelings and strange landscapes. To complete the picture (and I left this comment to the end on purpose) the author finds the most imaginative forms of divulgation while creating an utterly interesting and scientific book of fiction.PS .- Do not be scared of the difficulty in remembering Chinese names (if you are a western reader, you will have to consider this). We westerners are not used to the Chinese monosyllabic names. Don't worry. Apparently the author had this is mind as he masterfully takes care of this by his way of addressing the appearance of the different characters, and if after that you still have some problems identifying the different characters, you can always rely on the X-Ray feature in kindle
第776条评论: Let me begin by saying I'm NOT a huge sci fi fan. I like my sci close to real and I love it when the tale isn't just plot driven. Let's say I'm someone who read the entire Red Mars trilogy and loved the politics. So. This. This is a sociopolitical sociotechnical tale that actually got me scared/nervous/anxious for the first part, the way a really good sci fi tale can. Moving between the 'cultural revolution' era in China and its legacy in a more modern day China, the tale unfolds through characters who themselves are trying to figure it out what's going on. It dips into physics, mathematics, and computational thinking, but also murder, conspiracy, and betrayal. At one point we're moving through cultural evolutions in a virtual world. At another we're sequestered in a mysterious astrophysics science enclave atop a mountain. Like others who've reviewed this book have said, I had trouble putting it down. The author creates and sustains a great tension between the initial mystery and the increasing feeling of panic as the mystery begins to resolve. Heh heh. Can't wait for the next book.
第777条评论: It takes 100 pages or so to start getting into the meat of the science fiction, so don't give up on this book if you think it starts off kind of slow. Very imaginative and creative book, with several intriguing concepts. It helps if you have a bit of a science background, but it is written so that anyone can enjoy this book. Can't wait to start the second book of the series.
第778条评论: This book seems to be highly regarded. It is okay, but not a fully realized concept. But a fun read.
第779条评论: This three book series is a Commitment. The books are long, full, and make you think. The writing is superb and the style reminds me of the instructions my Sumi painting teacher gave me. "Before you start, decide what time of year it is, what time of day it is and what the weather is like". The book really puts you in the moment in each scene and the subsequent books as well. I am well in to the third book, and I'm a very fast reader, and yet my Kindle is saying I still have over 11 hours of enjoyment in the last volume. I've learned a lot about Chinese culture and politics and the philosophical points made really make you think. Thank goodness for the great footnotes! I recommend the series but be ready to commit to reading, thinking, then reading and thinking some more.
第780条评论: It took me several months to read the three books of the Trilogy "Three Body Problem", which is not unusual for me. As several people have implied the trilogy starts at a slow pace but then (they forgot to say) builds up to a fantastic finish unlike anything that I have previously read (and I have read a lot of SyFy and Fantasy). THE MORE I READ, THE HARDER IT WAS TO PUT THE BOOKS DOWN. As an American with little Asian culture knowledge, the slow pace of the first book turned out to be necessary to get me, the reader, oriented for the constantly quickening pace and accelerating rate of surprises that occur as this story progresses through books 2&3. This Triology is unique in many ways and demonstrates that the author really can think broadly across mankind, time and science. It also portrays a very believable story of how mankind would react across long periods of time, a wide range of circumstances and incredible challenges. I WILL read more of CIXIN Lui's work!!!
第781条评论: Imagination that makes sense scientifically. Much like how the 3body game was hiding a sense of deep reality through a simplistic design, the concepts and content of this book, albeit imaginary, can hold true in some deeper sense. This is a wonderful book for those who can enjoy science and imagination together with an open mind. Perhaps this book is the embodiment of the phrase , " Reality is stranger than fiction" in its own world. It's a portal to another dimension. I read a couple of reviews from people who couldn't get through the book and am wondering why they even bothered to advertise their lack of understanding or limited reading potential. Do not be side-tracked by those. This book genuinely deserves your reading time.
第782条评论: I was all set to love this, and was looking forward to the sequels.  After reading the first volume, I'm out.  This is just awful stuff, lacking in both scientific merit and human emotion.  I didn't detect a protagonist.  If you want to read a story about human/alien contact that doesn't totally suck, read "The Mote In God's Eye" or "Rendezvous With Rama" or something...This book's treatment of tech was so embarrassingly lame...  Not even the vaguest sketch of how the VR suits would work, like how hot they'd make you feel if your environment is an inferno, and how you could walk around in the VR world without banging into stuff in the real world...  The orbital mechanics made no sense either.  The crazy cultists made no sense.  The renegades _at both ends of contact_ made no sense.  The aliens made the least sense of all.  Being what they are, how could they even have a concept of "lying"?I'll spare you any further spoilers, so if you want to read it for yourself and get the full effect, have at it.  It blows.  Don't say I didn't warn you.  But if you'd like my copy, it is for sale.
第783条评论: This is a wonderful, must-read novel. Beautifully written, mixing moving (and at times hard to stomach) history, with scientifically sound "hard" sci-fi. The story is captivating and the work is emotionally gripping.The bad review has nothing to do with the novel, and everything to do with publisher choices. The main plot twist, a dramatic and beautiful one, is revealed about three quarters in, and it would be interesting to see if the reader can grasp it before that point. But with this edition, you don't get to experience that, because the back cover gives it away, indeed spells it out prominently. Why that is, and who thought that would be a good idea, is a mystery.I strongly recommend the book, but don't know what to tell you - buy the hard copy and try to avoid seeing what is written in large characters on it? get an audio version instead? Not sure...
第784条评论: This is the best of the three books in the trilogy, although that may be a function of the translation rather than the underlying story (apparently the translator for this book is different from that of the others).  Chinese Science Fiction is odd to American readers and odd, in this case, is good.  Hard science intermingled with solid political theory and history mixed with human stories not limited to just boy-meets-girl.  It's an engaging and worthy read.
第785条评论: Really enjoyed the technical and philosophical aspects of the book. Found the structure of the actual story a little odd, seems like characters met or took actions specifically to have certain discussions, but overall still engaging.Not related to the book itself but one thing I didn't like is that the description of the book gives away a lot and takes away some of the mystery if you read it first.
第786条评论: Several interesting concepts introduced in this story and it is nice to read from the viewpoint of a culture I am not familiar with. That said, this book suffers from a Moby Dick type implementation with nearly entire chapters reading like a history book with no dialogue. Even the most interesting subject matter feels tedious when presented in this format. Perhaps I have spent too much time reading the high action and dialogue heavy Expanse novels but this was a 400 page book that felt like 1,000.
第787条评论: Entertaining story. Fun to read. Not normally a fan of science fiction, but definitely a good one. I may even check out the sequels.
第788条评论: It was a very slow-sizzle from beginning to end.  The Sci-fi is relegated to Earth for the majority of the book.  Hints of other worldly aspects in the Universe.  First of a three-part series that I hope takes me off Earth.
第789条评论: I feel like some of the ideas are a bit dubious from an engineering standpoint, but definitely neat concepts. The story takes a while to get going and I was probably 100 pages in before I had a real concept of the main idea (It starts off as historical fiction rather than sci-fi). That said, it's suspenseful and exciting once it gets going. I think the most obvious comparison to this book would be Ender's Game. I would absolutely recommend this.
第790条评论: Well written. I liked the chinese background of the story. Almost all sci-fi literature tends to have american point of view which has too narrow perspective of humans and aliens. Physics felt a little farfetched, minus point for that. Good book, worth the awards it has got.
第791条评论: It's not always the case that one finds both good science and good storylines in the same book. I enjoyed the mental challenge this book brought me. Even more than that, it is intriguing, refreshing and somewhat relieving to read a book that is not written placed somewhere in America or in an American-like society. This is my first taste of Chinese-written science fiction and I love how much I am learning about an entire part of history and a nation that has been hidden for so very long. A definite must-read!
第792条评论: The Three Body Problem Novel ReviewThe Three Body Problem, written by  Liu Cixin and translated by Ken Liu, is an astounding book.  As one of the few Chinese novels translated into English, and the only one with a team of this caliber (bestselling author, award winning translator, mainstream publisher), it was a book that I waited for with massive anticipation as soon as I heard about it.The novel is the first of a bestselling Chinese SF trilogy, written by the "George R.R. Martin of China".  It brings what is familiar to Chinese culture and history into new and strange events, making it all the more interesting for English readers.  The cultural references are brilliantly handled by the translator--I was never lost or confused--and the footnotes were each and everyone critical to the story when inserted; you could see how intentional the translator was about placing them, and it gave me faith of the deliberation he put into every sentence.I appreciated so much how the mindsets of the characters were clearly expressed; they were strange yet logical in their own ways.  I often find that translators lose the unique individual's voice in the translation, in large part due to the foreignness of the text itself, but also due to the natural inclination of the translator's own voice taking over.  This was not the case in this novel.  Each character was unique and equally brilliant.  The craft of their design impressed me constantly.As for the story itself, without giving too much away...Science has impossibly and suddenly stopped progress, prestigious evidence-based scientists are committing suicide as the laws of nature break, and a powerful organization seemingly bent on both saving the human race and destroying it at the same time might or might not be responsible.Yeah.  It's a lot. I was entirely convinced of the backgrounds of the characters (whoa smart lingo made readable) and I was baffled constantly to how everything might come together. Thankfully, as the pace of the novel unraveled the most pressing questions at the most critical moments of WTFisgoingon, I was drawn along the line of frustration and intrigue.  I definitely noticed many built-in casually handled things as a western reader: a depth in brevity, an openness to understanding the people behind certain political and authoritative corruptness, the simultaneous value and low value of the individual, and always the strong limits to ones ability to act--and how to act anyway.Dichotomy, I'd summarize, is the highest art of the writing.The elegantly executed "conclusion" (first of a trilogy, after all), made me feel in reflection, that the story was too unbelievable to work, and yet when reading I was absolutely convinced it was real.I highly recommend this book, not only for the entertainment and mystery and cultural exploration, but for the introspection that you will doubtlessly confront while reading it.  Fantastically done.  5 stars.
第793条评论: Others have described this book as the Chinese analogue of Carl Sagan's "Contact". It certainly was compelling science fiction, with a bit of sad history about the madness of the Cultural Revolution mixed in. I rooted for the woman scientist Ye Wenjie to turn out good and to find healing for her pain. And I rooted for the human race to overcome the alien plot.I wish I could give this 5 stars, but the book fell apart for me. TL;DR The book easily tops any Star Trek episode in terms of nonsense premises propped up by techno-babble. That would be fine, except that the core plot tension near the end depended on believing a particular premise, one that is absolutely impossible in the real world. That too would be fine, except the book presents itself as hard scifi. When the scifi went spongy soft, I just couldn't feel scared about the terrifying situation anymore.At the beginning I was overawed by the sciency-sounding didactic, and began to wonder if the author knew more about physics than me. Then came the part about using the Sun as a massive amplifier for radio waves, and I had engage some heavy suspension of disbelief. For our Sun in the real world to have this property, the layers would have to be arranged just perfectly to form a maser at the right frequency. Very unlikely.The book shot off the rails into deep space, though, when it produced the "Sophons". This unbeatable enemy was a proton, unfolded from its original 11 dimensions and etched with a computer circuit. Running an AI routine, a pair of these whiz around at the speed of light, screwing up particle-accelerator experiments so human science comes to a halt. When they're not busy doing that, they project messages onto people's retinae. (Eye roll) The book goes on for pages, in a kind of Socratic dialogue, shooting down every possible way the proton pair could be defeated. I could go on at length here, taking apart the nonsense physics, but those who really care can do that for themselves.The eponymous "3-body problem" was merely a MacGuffin. Solving or not solving it was irrelevant to the plot. Numerical methods would have been sufficient for the Trisolarans to predict the motion of their system far enough into the future to cope with its instability. Furthermore, if they had the ability to re-engineer protons, then they could solarform any star system they felt like. Earth would be more of a convenience than a necessity.
第794条评论: After I learned that President Obama recommended this, I decided to try it because I had never read any SciFi not written by an American author.  Plus, it had won the Hugo.  While I found it to be an excellent story, it was also a very challenging read.The first challenge was reading a translated work.  I know very little of Chinese history (just some key events, all through the lens of US history), so it was a struggle at first to follow the story because it is intimately tied into China’s Cultural Revolution. In fact, more than a third of the book simply follows a primary character through her horrific experiences during a period when science was rejected and academicians were attacked and even killed.  The translator included many footnotes to help give context, but it had the effect of feeling like a history book rather than a SciFi story. I actually checked the synopsis more than once since the alien invasion plotline doesn’t come into play until more than halfway through.The second challenge was that this is definitely “hard SciFi.” The title comes from an actual problem of orbital mechanics which is explored via an online game in the story, and which ties directly into the alien civilization.  I found myself skimming through some of the mathematical exposition, but it served very well to ground the story. While the first half was a slog, the second half was far more interesting.  I’ve read more than a few alien invasion plots, and seen even more films.  But, it’s rare that a story devotes so much time to how different factions of humanity are likely to react (governments, scientists, religious, etc.) even before the invasion occurs.  If an alien race were to come to Earth, traveling light years means it’s not going to happen quickly!  I found this part fascinating.Overall, I’d give the book 3.5 stars, but was hooked enough I ordered the remainder of the trilogy. I expect the story to be much better now that so much history/framing is out of the way.  Recommended.
第795条评论: Mind Bending Epic Sci Fi Story The Three-Body ProblemCixin Liu’s The Three-Body Problem is stunning, elegant, epic, and hard core science fiction with mind boggling ideas like using the sun as a radio amplifier, unfolding 11-diemnsional photon into two dimensional circuit boards to etch communication bus to create an artificial intelligence chip,  using nano-technology filaments to cut a ship into thousand pieces, or the evolution of a distance alien civilization through multiple destruction caused by its three suns.The story spans multiple decades and characters, zooming in on Ye Wenjie and Wang Miao, two scientists born decades apart. Wenjie is an astrophysicist with a haunted past; she’s the daughter of a physicist who was beaten to death by his students during the Cultural Revolution for daring to teach the “reactionary” idea of general relativity while she witnessed the madness helplessly.Miao is a nano tech engineer drawn into a virtual-reality online video game called the Three Body that’s metaphysical and at the same time simulates the three-sun world of the alien civilization.Either of these premises alone would make for a rich SF novel, but Cixin Liu is only getting warmed up. By the time the book hits its peak, it’s unveiled a conspiracy that spans solar systems — one that not only threatens to alter the human race, but the very building blocks of physics that we’ve evolved to understand.The Three-Body Problem is hard SF, full of lengthy passages of technical exposition about everything from quantum mechanics to artificial intelligence. But Cixin Liu supports all of that braintwisting theory with empathetic characters and a strong action-thriller backbone. That’s a lot to set up. The story begins slowly  and it takes a while to untangle exactly who or what the focal points of the plot are supposed to be. Once it’s up and running, though, it’s gripping.In the following volume he expands upon “dark forest” theory of alien invasion of the Earth. One might say it is China’s imperial history, the history of other expansive civilizations and the pre-history of the first contact of Neanderthals with modern humans.He asks a classic sci fi question – if we ever detect a fist signal from an alien civilizations, can we hide our dark history to the distant civilization? How would Earth grapple with the bare facts of “first contact”? Will there be riots and chaos as portrayed in Hollywood movies?How the World religions will react? It may be easy for Buddhists and Hindus with beliefs of grand and teeming universe of untold antiquity vibrating with living energies but Christianity will face the tougher challenge of explaining if Jesus salvation extends to distant planets.
第796条评论: China 1967, Earth. Mao Tse Tung is in power, but factions inside the communist party are in disagreement even up to armed conflict. This is the background, while the story revolves around physicists. Over the next 40 years, China while rejecting theoretical physics, gains strength in applied research. Even though physicists keep committing suicide.Oh, but the story is really about "Three Body" a modern virtual reality game that entrances players to the point of death. Oh, wait again, this is a science fiction novel and it's REALLY about another planet far far away.Maybe you can tell that I cannot come up with a good way to explain this novel, a winner of the prestigious Hugo Award for 2015. The lead-in is looooong; the plot doesn't really get going until page 172. But in the meantime, and as it gets going, the historical and astronomical and physics background is pretty interesting. What it all leads up to, final cataclysm, is revealed gradually, and is a great science fiction premise.On the plus side, the writing in "The Three Body Problem" is intelligent and the basic premise of the "three bodies" and its application to a real life situation is very interesting. The way the author brings together different threads is well done, though occasionally confusing. On the minus side, for me, is that there is too much background, lots of extraneous "stuff" that, though creatively written, is long-winded as well as entangled."The Three Body Problem" is the first in Cixin Liu's "Remembrance of Earth's Past" trilogy. I may have to gather my strength before reading the 2nd, "The Dark Forest", because this first one was hard work and a bit depressing.Happy Reader
第797条评论: I’m a self-proclaimed Science Fiction buff. I’ve read plenty of Asimov, Arthur Clark, Robert Heinlein, Frank Herbert (and his son), the list goes on. I am ecstatic to have found another author that makes me turn each page frantically, absolutely crazy to discover what the next page will bring… Just reading this one book has made me an absolute fan of the author. Yes, it starts off too slow for me, but, oh boy, things escalate and escalate, and escalate leaving you HUNGRY for more. I sincerely do not know what some other reviewers are talking about when they mention “lack of character development”. If anything, I’d say the author could actually have cut back a bit when painstakingly guiding readers through the life of one of the main characters. So, no, there is no lack of character development here (IMO). I highly recommend it!PS. Be prepared to get used to Chinese names… It does get confusing for us westerners.PS2. For physicists criticizing the book, well, it’s science FICTION. My suggestion is: Keep your Calculus knowledge where it belongs, in the real world.Enjoy!!
第798条评论: I went into this book with no idea at all what it was (beyond SF).  I had a a grasp about 60% through. Though the story started slowly, the pacing was about right and I kept reading to try and see around the next corner. This isn’t a story of individual heroes and villains, but a macro story about humanity.I don’t know if the science is accurately portrayed- it could be Star Trek-esq. that’s ok, it was entertaining like science fiction shows are.I haven’t given you any hints about this story, I recommend not fishing for any - just read this and enjoy the ride.
第799条评论: The first thing I have to say about Cixin Liu’s “The Three-Body Problem” is that it is not only a good science-fiction novel, but also a good novel irrespective of genre: it transcends the limits of science-fiction and deserves a place on any reading list. The book benefits from an excellent English translation by Ken Liu, the author of “The Grace of Kings”, a fantasy novel which I had read with pleasure. The story is set (mostly) in the People’s Republic of China, from the violent beginnings of the Cultural Revolution in the late 1960s to the present day. The harsh realities and the complicated imaginary of the People’s Republic permeate the novel; as in all totalitarian states, the ideology and generally the political mythology and the associated rituals are quite often great forces of immediate and considerable practical importance. Fortunately the translator provides many footnotes (hyperlinked in the electronic version) to help the European or American reader understand the setting in its exotic details.Now I don’t want to be misunderstood—this is a science-fiction novel; or possibly a fantasy novel, depending on where the reader places the boundaries between science-fiction and fantasy. The story could have been set in the Soviet Union, in the United Kingdom or the United States; but then it would have been a very different novel. The Chinese setting is important; moving the story to any other great country would have required considerable alterations in order to maintain an air of verisimilitude.Some readers may be reluctant to accept certain more fantastic aspects of the story; one may observe a gradual progression throughout the novel from plain historical fiction, to ordinary science fiction, to hard science fiction, to mild fantasy to mind-blowing fantasy; the perceived problem is that the mind-blowing fantasy elements are presented as if they were science fiction, and this is what I found somewhat grating in the final part of the book, where the fantastically fantastic elements agglomerate to create unforgettable images. I don’t know how to explain this better, other than to say that “The Three-Body Problem” is to science-fiction as “Hero” or “House of Flying Daggers” are to historical films: everything is amplified until the boundaries between science-fiction and fantasy melt into a haunting kaleidoscopic image.(Scale: * - unreadable, couldn't finish; ** - bad or very bad, but readable; *** - good work, well worth the price; **** - very good in its genre; ***** - timeless masterpiece.)
第800条评论: This is the most impactful sci-fi series I've ever read.  What I mean by that, is that this series has permanently changed: the way I look at the stars, the way I perceive time, the way I think about life, the way I think about SETI, the way I think about the meaning of life, the way I think about human beings' place in the universe, the way I view technology, etc.This series well and truly "blew my mind away".  This isn't a page0-turning space opera adventure kind of story.  The story is interesting and good, and there is most definitely some drama and entertainment - and the writing is excellent (translation to English is superb).  But the main thing for me about this series is that it educated me about physics and really made me look at EVERYTHING through a new lens.  The ideas in this book I had never encountered before - and I am a voracious reader.  I found this series to be totally original and mind-blowing.  There were time where I simply needed to put it down after reading only a short time, in order to simply ponder the ideas presented.  I've never had quite an experience like this with a book.Highly recommend this series.  And, make sure you read all three, because each one is better than the last.  The last book of the series was my favorite and just absolutely melted my brain.  I mean, to the degree where I am questioning my own reality.  Yes, it is that good.  Really, a mind and perception altering experience.
第801条评论: I would strongly recommend Three Body Problem foremost for what comes later in the series!The first book is clever, better as "science" than "fiction". The plot is absolutely masterful. The conception of extraterrestrials is as real as ever encountered in a SciFi (although their potential is far less clear in this book). Their planet's life cycle, caused by the unfathomable play of the three suns, is absolutely the high point of the book. The author too must have been impressed by what he came up with and made it the title of the book as well as the central theme.In a way, the Three Body obsession proves to be one of the key weaknesses of the book. When this is abandoned in the second book, the story truly flourishes.For many readers, the backdrop could prove a hurdle. The Chinese names, symbols, humour, typical language usages including sentence formations, aphorisms, narrative nuances or even emotion expressions/manifestations are different. When translated, they appear artificial. It is difficult to decide whether this is due to the gap in the way different types of societies live or a case of bad writing/characterization. I am sure it is quite a bit of both.As the book progresses, the awkwardness of the backdrop reduces although one never roots for the key characters the way one would in many other such books. As a result, one is going through the tale more for its marvelous fantasy world and intelligent technical twists rather than their impact on individuals. Another flaw that is somewhat overcome in the second book.The most disappointing is the climax. If it was just a case of leaving some strands open for the progress in the second book, I would have been fine. But for some strange reason, the author quickens the narrative to obfuscate (and still claim that he did not fully keep away the key information)  some of the key tenets driving various parties - none of which are truly evil. What gets defeated is also tiny in the context of the scope of the story. Another thing corrected in the second.This is a good book whose potential is realized elsewhere. A must read, I repeat one last time, for what comes ahead.
第802条评论: worth a read if you like your stories to be a realistic interpretation of sci-fi.
第803条评论: In his Revelation Space series, Alastair Reynolds offers one answer to the mystery of what has come to be known as Fermi's paradox.  (I found his development and unveiling of that answer to be a lot of fun and highly satisfying.)In the Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy (The Three-Body Problem, The Dark Forest, and Death's End), Cixin Liu develops an alternative explanation that is utterly compelling.None of the three volumes was a breezy read.  I had read more than half of the first volume before I became confident that I would finish the book. At one point, the trilogy offers the metaphor of being sucked into the vortex of a whirlpool: at first the pull is imperceptible; later -- without ever perceiving the boundary -- it has become irresistible.  That is what happened to me with each volume. (In the 2nd and 3rd volumes, it happened well before halfway.)Another reviewer said the pace of the storytelling is in sync with the scope of the story.  Having finished the trilogy, I agree... completely.Many page-turner books keep me up the wee hours to finish them.  In this trilogy, there was too much to ponder in each chapter to be able to rush through.  So each volume took me weeks to complete.I savor those weeks.I look forward to another story that is as fun and satisfying as Reynolds' Revelation Space series.I will treasure finding a story as compelling and thought-provoking as the Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy.
第804条评论: This is my first step into hard sci fi and after a few chapters of The Three Body Problem, I knew I’d jumped into the deep end.While I enjoyed reading the book and having the story unfold, I had some issues with the book. One, most of the book is a large info dump. Those who are interested on how the science works will be happy with this book. Eventually, the science info dumps feel a bit pretentious, but I didn’t have trouble reading and understanding them. Two, this is a Chinese novel and reads that way. The prose can sound stiff when I’m used to English novels, add the science and it can feel like a text book. It feels alien to this western reader, and perhaps that’s a good thing for such a book. Three, the character development in lackluster, with the exception of the antagonist.However, there are a lot of books with deep character development and not enough that really delve into technical details. This book serves the purpose it sets out to serve and does it very well.I will definitely be picking up the second novel in this series.
第805条评论: This book is extraordinary.  The author has a deft touch with the unexpected blend of hard science and deeply felt human emotions.  My (admittedly limited) experience with Chinese literature did not quite prepare me for the rhythm of the book, where not a word is wasted and the story moves quickly while burning a path through your brain.A story of profound ideas told simply and sparingly, the reader is invited to feel the fear building from the first page.  The words of post-modern ugliness and hate are countered by slim moments of beauty and hope, with both the hate and the beauty betrayed and betraying by turn.  These complex ideas, along with laws and theories of physics, are presented in words so exact and poetic that the reader is just swept along for the ride of a lifetime.My two favorite moments from the book: in a virtual reality setting when a body long ago burned at the stake is identified as Giordano Bruno without further commentary and the concept of spooky quantum entanglement as providing a real time vision of actions across light years.I thank the author and his talented translator for this work.  My own limited imagination has been freshly awakened thanks to the powerful imaginations behind this amazing story.  For a split second, I could actually visualize the happenings in the particle accelerator as the scientists were driven toward madness.  I am so grateful to have read this extraordinary book
第806条评论: This book was a great change from the militaristic sci-fi I usually read.  Can't wait to read the next book!
第807条评论: Clearly Cixin Liu is a master of his art, the novel.  I am just grateful that he writes his masterpieces in the field of science fiction.  In some ways this novel is in the mystery genre: What did that mean?  How will this unfold?  What truth lies behind that clue?  In other ways it is a an action novel.  There is no unnecessary violence, but there is action.  In other ways it is a story about relationships, family, friends, good relationships, and broken ones.  It is very well rounded.Ultimately it is about human nature.  Liu's insights into this subject are compelling.  Some of it is by contrasting humans with the alien species.  Some of it is by taking us through human conversations or thought soliloquies.For me as a xenophilic American, probably the most useful thing is the insight it gives into Chinese culture and how recent history impacts that.  It is not a thorough treatise on culture, though -- it is just a novel.  But narratives, for example, set in the Cultural Revolution help me begin to begin getting a better understanding of some things that inform Chinese world view which I never experienced.  The novel walks me through average people's daily lives in a country I have never visited.The translation is also a work of high excellence.  I tweeted Ken Liu congratulating him on this accomplishment.Cixin Liu's work wholly deserves its honor of winning the Hugo Award this year.
第808条评论: I'm about 25% into the book. I doubt I'll finish it. I have a Ph.D. in Physics, and my graduate program had a strong Particle Physics department (though I specialized elsewhere). The author shows a startling lack of understanding of what motivates Physicists and how they think, to a point where the book is ruined for me.There is also rather ... amateur hour writing, which may be due to the translator.Spoiler version:In the book plot, the invariance of physics under translations in time and space has been proved to be wrong at higher energies, and because of this "There is no Physics" and scientists have started killing themselves due to despair. This is nonsense.In the real world, Particle Physics has gotten rather boring and predictable. Short of some absurd theoretical results at energies that we can't test experimentally, the Standard Model has tremendous explanatory power and has explained all experiments and predicted new results correctly. CERN discovered the Higgs, as expected, but has brought out no new Physics, thus far. This is disappointing. Much, much more exciting would be a field breaking result, (such as a new, previously unknown, variance of Physics in time and space at higher energies). Particle Physics would be fun again.Similarly, when Wang Miao starts seeing a countdown, instead of jumping to the most likely conclusion (that he is becoming mental ill, and needs outside, non-biased verification of what he is seeing) or that he is receiving messages from some outside intelligence, he starts to go crazy in a very over the top and amateurishly written way.
第809条评论: As an avid reader of Hugo winning books, I wouldn’t have expected this book to be among those greats when taken as a whole. The last quarter gets interesting but also seems to leave off with unfinished business. The first half is so slow and hard to follow, I almost stopped reading. I do wonder though, that since the original is in Chinese, perhaps the style and allusions just don’t mesh with my brain. Sorry, but all in all, id give  C+ and not something I’d recommend.
第810条评论: It was such a pleasure to read a well-written and imaginative science fiction novel, all the way from China, no less! The story starts during the Cultural Revolution in China and imagines a SETI-type experiment conducted by the Communist Party. A clever technological trick allows the Chinese to communicate with an advanced civilization, whose home is on a world with 3 suns in the Alpha Centauri. The story of this civilization, TriSolaris, is fascinating, making use of the insoluble 3-body problem to tell a magical tale of civilizations constantly destroyed and reformed during periods of continuous chaos interspersed with occasional stability. The characters, mostly scientist and engineer types, are often interesting and poignant; and the Chinese landscape, history and society are described with authority and feeling. The science "tricks" are imaginative throughout and tied to known science; thus, while the technology is often fantastical, there is no fantasy or magic involved. American sci-fi tends to use highly linear story-telling which can feel  mechanical, predictable and regimented. Chinese story-telling, by contrast, meanders, taking time to pause for the characters to reflect and talk between action episodes. I had almost given up reading sci-fi, disappointed with its formulaic approach and B-grade writing style. This novel restored my faith. I hope Cixin Liu's other novels are translated into English in the very near future.
第811条评论: For some reason, I usually do not like sci-fi involving aliens. I usually do not like reading translations. I had read reviews saying that this first book in the series was not great. Well, I totally disagree with them. this first book, even if it is about aliens (sorry for the spoiler but the abstract is already spoiling it), even if it is a translation is just amazing. I love the hard sci-fi, totally mind-blowing. I loved the style that I found poetic but still straight to the point. I was hooked after two pages. Tons of philosophical concepts, tons of references to scientific discoveries, famous scientists... Learning more about Chinese history and culture was also very interesting. This book totally deserved the Hugo award. I can't recommend this book enough.I'm very excited since I heard that the 2nd book is even better. I can't imagine how.
第812条评论: When I put this book down I was equal parts depressed and blown away. It is wholly original, a great mixture of hard (really hard) science fiction, political intrigue, and social commentary. Liu has opened up a virtual factory of incredible, original SF ideas in this book, and, I assume, in the remainder of the series.I will admit that I had trouble getting into this novel at first, both because it starts out quite slowly and stays slow for most of its length. Also, particularly for readers not familiar with the Chinese Cultural Revolution,  it can be challenging keeping the characters and their motivations straight. This is certainly not the author's fault.Put in the work for the first 3/4 of this novel - the last 50-75 pages are a payoff worth waiting for and contain the most humbling and scary explanation for the Fermi Paradox and reason to STOP LOOKING FOR E.T. RIGHT NOW that I've ever read.Four stars because I feel I missed a lot of the characterization - but if I were handing out stars for pure, unadulterated science fiction IDEAS, the Amazon limit of 5 would not be enough.
第813条评论: OK, I'll get my frustration with this novel up front...was something lost in translation? And I don't mean literally, but culturally. Because this is a strangely nuanced novel and I wondered whether much of it was slipping past me, unseen.So, the story itself is essentially a first contact scenario. But there is a considerable prelude as the main character is established. It felt contrived, as if the author was holding a Western audience in mind and needed to set the context. Whatever the thinking, it went on and on.The actual contact component was built up competently enough, with considerable tension. And the game play aspect was good. But it all evaporated for me as the motives and actions of the aliens were revealed. That was seriously weird, and not in a 'good descriptions of aliens' way but just strange. As in, 'this makes no sense' way. Because if the aliens could do what they could do, you think it through, there seemed no reason why they had to fuss around as they did. And no reason to communicate as they did.Actually, writing this review I'm realising I've still an underlying frustration that the promise of all those positive reviews was not realized. This was ok, but is not the masterpiece others would have you think. A lot of it is clunky - perhaps that's translation though - and the supposed beyond cutting edge physics may as well be magic, but it is definitely a plot mechanism and clearly so. Plus there is an ongoing undercurrent of depression in the characters that became annoying. That might be me, I don't particularly care for anti-hero types.Overall this was serviceable. But I will not be buying the sequel(s), the story did not engage me enough.
第814条评论: Kudos to the translator!  It must be quite a challenge to retain the literary style and cultural impact of the original while keeping as close as possible to meaning, and yet this book does that.  At the same time that I appreciated the translation, I just could not relate  to the characters or to the situations described.  I pre-ordered this book, as I often enjoy reading books and stories by people written all around the world, and have not read any authors from China. But I can't say that I particularly enjoyed this book.  The characters seemed cold, distant.  Situations seemed foreign, complicated, sometimes cruel.  Maybe the gap between me and my life and the author and his life is just too large. I never got involved with this book.  Instead of being motivated to read parts two and three (not yet available in English), I am just relieved to have made it through part one; I feel too exhausted by the effort to want to read any more of this story.  I gave it four stars for cleverness and uniqueness.  You might want to read it for those qualities, and for the interesting ideas.  But don't expect to connect with the characters or relate to the situations.
第815条评论: An insight into the "human" condition of perpetual struggle and desperation that all life must face. That which drives us into contact with other extraterrestrial life is not the desire for exploration and adventure but rather the need to find an escape, a refuge, an Eden defined solely by it's sense of security and freedom from the fears of daily existence, including the violence and repressions of our societies. The genius of this author is that he turns this tired paradigm --that of the lucky survivors fleeing a dying, used up, and corrupt earth--on it's head. They're coming to replace us not due to any need for conquest or due to the moral failure of their own society but because of the harshness of their home planet and the twisted moralities that grow out of a desperate need to escape a celestial and inescapable doom. Add in the paranoid backdrop of China's cultural revolution, the hubris of Western culture, protagonists who have experienced and committed terrible crimes, and the near mysticism of advanced physics and you have a recipe for one deep read. One that goes beyond the normal escapism of the genre, leaving you inspired, depressed, enervated, and ultimately looking for some time to sort our place in the cosmos, "bugs" though we are.
第816条评论: If you're looking for something out of the ordinary to read this year, I strongly suggest this book. A best-seller in its native China, it has only just been released in the US. The plot spans several decades of China's history, and neatly incorporates that tumultuous story into the book's own, with some smartly used footnotes to help explain any cultural events that us Westerners might not be familiar with. Telling the story of Chinese scientists looking to stop a mysterious global catastrophe that may have extraterrestrial origins (the less known about the central mystery going in the better), the plot mostly moves along at a breakneck pace, especially as it reaches the conclusion. There are a few points that get bogged down in some pretty deep scientific explanations, but given how out there some of the story can get, it's also necessary to keep it in the realm of the possible. And believe me, this story can get pretty out there, delving into some highly theoretical territory; but that winds up being where it held a lot of its appeal for me. Even still I find myself thinking over some of the ideas posited within. It also holds some surprisingly liberal notions and is more directly and indirectly critical of China than I would have thought a book the government of that country hadn't censored would allow. It is a fascinating, thrilling piece of science fiction that I highly recommend to fans of the genre.REVIEW ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED ON GOODREADS
第817条评论: I came to the Three Body Problem with fairly high expectations as it is accompanied by many reviews and constantly talked about. Being branded as "hard sci-fi" made me slightly cautious. The other two hard science fiction books I've read have been Andy Weir's The Martian (very readable) and Neal Stephenson's Seveneves (very dense and difficult). The Three Body Problem falls well in between the two books with a pacing more akin to The Martian, but with a tone and heady physics more like Stephenson.  Without the intensity of a thriller, the book's simmering tension made it difficult for me to put down. The book jumps timelines fairly quickly but is easy to follow. One of my detractions from the book is that it almost felt like it could've taken more time to unfold the driving motives of the different players in the story. However one of my favorite aspects of the book was that it moved along quite well, had several very interesting characters and kept me wonderuntnwhat was going to happen all the way to the book's end.All in all the Three Body Problem is an exciting, mysterious science fiction novel that is well worth your time.
第818条评论: This is a fascinating sci-fi tale by Chinese author Cixin Liu.  It begins very mysteriously, and quickly crescendos into suspense, international intrigue, and fantastic plot twists.  Won't describe too much of the plot, since the main twist is what sets up the rest of the trilogy.  I'm currently reading the last entry in the trilogy, and am excited to see how it all ends.The best part about 3BP, and its sequels, is that it's a 'hard' science sci-fi tale.  While there are still fantastic leaps of technology, they are always grounded in reality and physics.  Cixin won't simply say, "They had a laser gun, and they shooted it."  He'll describe the power source, how it was built, and the energy output.  This is Arthur C. Clarke storytelling for the modern era.I have to admit that I'm not widely read on non-English authors, and among even those, it would be mainly Europeans.  I found this translation to be easy to read, with helpful footnotes along the way for more obscure references to non-Eastern readers.  While difficult to describe precisely, I could always sort of tell that I was reading something not written in native English.  However, I kept an open mind about the prose, and enjoyed a thoroughly good story.
第819条评论: As someone who loves physics and astronomy, I loved every page. Everything falling into place in the end has me now going for the second book.Excellent!
第820条评论: Usually I can read a book in a day or two. This one took over a week, I just couldn’t get into it. To be fair, that may be because it is a translation. The last 80 or so pages picked up the pace thought, so I may give the next book in the series a try.
第821条评论: This novel is the opening part of a space opera series that takes a dark view of the search for extraterrestrial intelligence and first contact.  While aspects of it are interesting, and it also has some interesting points of contact with science, I have to say overall it is quite preposterous.  And I'm not speaking about what we learn about the aliens and their technology (which is based on highly speculative physics, but is no more crazy than other space opera).  But instead I'm speaking of what goes on on earth, with the people who are enamored of the aliens, and the whole "Three Body" virtual reality game and all that.  There are numerous characters whose actions and motivations just don't make much sense.  There's also a lot of buildup on certain plot elements - the Adventists vs the Redemptionists, etc which ultimately don't really matter at all in the light of what happens and what is revealed toward the end of the book.There is also a strangeness about this, that I think (despite the very good translation to English) results from a fundamental foreignness of Chinese culture to me as an American.  That makes it interesting, but maybe also accounts for some of the plot points and characterizations that I found strange.Overall - it's all right, and I'm mildly interested to read the next installment.  Actually when I was 90% of the way through, as all of the aliens' plotting is being revealed, I was thinking this is really stupid and I don't care to read more.  But the last chapter called "Bugs" rather intrigued me so maybe I will get the next one and give it another chance.
第822条评论: This book was much better than I expected. It didn't get some key scientific concepts quite right, but it was imaginative and well written nonetheless. The scenes that take place durring tumultuous times in 20th century Chinese history were particularly engaging and well written. Most of the characters were flat and poorly developed, but one character in particularly made up for all the rest.
第823条评论: I really don't understand how this book has gotten so many rave reviews.  I found it very disappointing, and there's no way I'm going to be trying to slog through the two sequels.  I found the insights into Chinese society and culture to be interesting, but the actual science fiction was pretty bad, and apparently written by someone who doesn't even understand beginning physics.  Why do I say that?  Mild spoilers ahead...  There's a lot of stuff in the book that's implausible (extremely implausible!), but that I might be willing to accept if the story was better.  But there was one place where the physics was clearly just flat wrong, which makes it harder for me to suspend my disbelief towards all the other things.  In one part of the story, the three suns line up above the aliens' planet and create such a powerful gravitational pull that objects on the planet surface are drawn up into space (including the oceans and the atmosphere!).  First of all, the lining up of the suns is pretty much irrelevant; the gravitational pull would be almost entirely determined by the closest sun because of the 1/r^2 dependence of the gravitational force.  So how close would the sun have to be to cancel out the planet's gravitational pull?  Well, if we use numbers from our Earth and Sun, it turns out that the Earth would have to be far closer to the Sun than Mercury is for this to happen; in fact about 1/16 of Mercury's mean orbital radius.  If we got that close to the Sun, the heat would kill us long before any gravitational or tidal effects.  But in the description of events, no mention was even made of heat...
第824条评论: Spoilers: The translator did an amazing job. I love the translator notes. They made me feel less dumb without pointing he out that I’m dumb. I’m on the second book, and I still prefer the first translator (which will be the same one for the third book thankfully). There some people b!+<#ing that the characters are flat. I have to disagree with the exception of two characters that should not have even been mentioned (wouldn’t have affected the storyline at all) - that would be the son and wife of one of the main characters. Besides that, I really felt invested in these characters and really sympathized with them. There’s kind of this philosophical twist in the end. LOVED.
第825条评论: Even as a novel of ideas this book is meandering and underdeveloped, to say the least.  Is it an allegory of Chinese politics? The Cultural Revolution? Is it an examination humanity's unredeemable flaws?  Is is an epistimology? Well, the problem is that it's all of these and more, but it meanders all over the place and in the end kind of peters out everywhete.  The novel certainly doesn't even try to depict lived human experience.  One minute we have an engineer who becomes obsesssed with something or other and casually abandons his wife and child for a couple of weeks, no questions asked.  I may have thought the wife would be a little upset at least, and maybe she was.  But we'll never know because we've moved on to another flat character.  Human relations and emotions are completely unexplored here.  Not important.  Not on the agenda.  I guess if you're a scholar of SF, and you want to be abreast of the trends, this book is worthwhile.  But otherwise it's not very interesting.
第826条评论: This was my first experience with this author and with reading a translated book. It is clear that the translator tried very hard to find a balance of allowing the reader to feel the tenor of the Chinese language as well as make it accessible to the American English reader. At first it felt like a "choppiness", but after reading the translator's thoughts at the end, it all makes sense!  I really enjoyed having that window.The subjects covered are very interesting and have me thirsting for my old physics books and a book on Chinese history!  Concepts of time and space really never get old for me. There are also those philosophical questions for the humankind - extraterrestrial nexus...what would we do?There is a great mystery to the story as it builds and that definitely kept me coming back. I'm looking forward to the second and third books.
第827条评论: One of the best science fiction stories I have ever read.BUT, Cixin Liu is an apologist for genocide against the Uighurs.And I must add a comment about Amazon's review system.  IT STINKS!Amazon makes NO ATTEMPT to associate reviews with the actual product being reviewed.Fix your pathetic excuse for a review system.From now on, I will add that addendum to EVERY review I post.
第828条评论: Wow, a "War of the Worlds" for the Information Age!  Set against the background of China's Cultural Revolution, this novel will dazzle the reader  with its insights into cutting-edge science and human nature.  The author, Lui Cixin, uses the science fiction genre to encourage the reader to contemplate humanity's place in the universe  and what first contact with an alien intelligence would really mean.  As Sir Martin Rees, the UK's Astronomer Royal,  has pointed out, the contact might well be more like "Independence Day" than "ET." On the down side, "The Three Body Problem," written by an engineer, may be overly technical and scientific for the general reader.  But if such a reader sticks with it, he will find the book rewards one with rich dividends for any efforts expended.  We can all identify with Liu's character, Da Shi, a charismatic Chinese detective who, though ignorant of theoretical physics, can think outside the box and who therefore represents humanity's resilience in the  face of an invasion by a superior but hostile alien intelligence.  This science fiction novel is heartily recommended !
第829条评论: Geniusly detailed to the point where details of the physics program can make you feel small. Almost like a detective story that you cant put down and yearning for the next bit of information to put it all together.
第830条评论: There is no real equivalent in Western science fiction. Childhood's End is a Western version of that question: "What would happen if Earthlings did encounter an extra-terrestrial civilization?". However it is nothing like this incredible work by Cixin Liu . Not only do we get a glimpse into Chinese civilization, politics, language and recent history but we get a formidable intelligence that comprehends the mathematical/geometrical structure of the universe and can convey that information to the lay public. The author's afterword is particularly dear to my heart. I am completely pessimistic about the future of humanity and the Earth given that I find humans to be a vile evil species not deserving of survival. The current political problems are just a confirmation of my opinion of the " masses" and their incredible stupidity and irrationality. I'm not alone. Jonathan Swift and H. L. Mencken said it so well long before I was born. I would welcome the encounter with the Tri-Solarians even though they are no better than we are.
第831条评论: This is a novel originally written in Mandarin, and so credit for the English version must be shared between the author and translator. What results from their combined efforts is a very unique and fascinating work of sci-fi. I had wondered what sci-fi from a non-western cultural perspective might look like, and here's one answer from Chinese author Liu Ci Xin: a story that stretches from roots in the cultural revolution out to the stars and whoever might be contacting humanity from them. The plot unfolds mysteriously and will keep you guessing, then surprise you with twists that turn in the opposite direction you might have come to expect from typical sci-fi. Definitely a fascinating and original book and important contribution to sci-fi from Liu, it held my interest by confounding my expectations, introducing interesting characters who don't fall neatly into the standard tropes, providing a really creative take on what a different alien culture might be like, and positing how differently "those in the know" would react to the knowledge and communication of advanced life in the universe before any actual visits can take place.
第832条评论: I really liked all the very science oriented parts that most people probably hated.  The first half of the book almost didn't need to be there for the 2nd half to make sense.  Kind of uneven throughout because of how disparate the first and second half were.
第833条评论: A very good book that was engaging and thought provoking. Some of the physics was tough to follow but overall a great book.
第834条评论: I wanted to write a review of how grand the setting is, how amusing the polts are, but this book is so much more than what you usually expect a typical "good novel". I strongly recommend you to read it.
第835条评论: Made me think carefully about the interpretations and positions we keep for science in our everyday world. S importance of understanding the fundamental laws that govern this world.
第836条评论: I don't read a lot of science fiction or even much fiction, but as a science-nerd this book was extremely enjoyable. I was initially hesitant to read a translated book as I know how much can get lost between two languages as different as English and Mandarin, but it shattered all doubts within the first chapter. The depiction of the cultural revolution was devastatingly powerful.
第837条评论: Superb science fiction/fantasy. The author has an amazing imagination and grasp of physics and mathematics.. Some characterizations are thin, but the main characters are believable and sympathetic. The Chinese names can be a bit of an obstacle. The plot is inventive and suspenseful. Altogether, this book is quite rewarding.
第838条评论: Great last 1/3rd. First two thirds were a bit of a slog. Assuming a second book comes out I will definitely read it.
第839条评论: I thought that this book was far too slow in its build up, and the way it constantly jumps in time by several decades at a time makes it impossible to really connect with any of the characters. The book also relies too heavily on the belief that the reader is familiar with Chinese history. The lack of action prevented me from taking more of an interest, as well as the heavy scientific jargon that is used. That being said, I would recommend this book for readers who have a great love for scientific theory and do not want a large amount of action. If you want action, read any Star Wars novel not based on the cartoons or Disney films.
第840条评论: What a clever book! I'm not finished yet, but am completely immersed in the story. The "science" part of science fiction is completely believable, the author's knowledge of physics, astrophysics etc. is excellent. The book is twisty, reveals the story slowly, but still remains a mesmerizing tale, even if you don't know what's going on (as I did early on) you will be entranced.
第841条评论: Gets a little slow at times but in general a great tead. Not the type of sci-fi with spaceships and such. More like SCIENCE fiction in the truest sense of the word.
第842条评论: If you are looking for an original work of hard scifi that is different from any of the American or EUropean standards, this is an absolutely remarkable novel.  Not only does it demand a high standard of scientific knowhow, but it has a political subtext that is unique and wonderfully subtle, which goes beyond the expected.The book opens with the unspeakable brutality of the Cultural Revolution, which is explored in a personal depth that I found moving and realistic.  A number of characters emerge, whose decisions will have a decisive impact of the history of humanity.  As there is first contact with an alien civilization, it creates a number of factions on Earth that will pursue radically different paths.  A subplot is the game program that informs and seduces, the core of this first volume in the trilogy.  Meanwhile, the Trisolarians develop their own strategy, a wonderful and unusual combination of superior science and tactical opportunity.  The weapon they develop is unlike anything I have yet seen in scifi.I wasn't sure I liked this until about the last 1/4 of the book, then I knew I was hooked and had to read the rest of the trilogy.  There are so many unexpected developments and fantastic images, all the while preserving the mystery into the nature of the Trisolarians, which is reserved for the following 2 novels.  To say the least, it ends with a rather bleak outlook into humanity's prospects.Recommended with enthusiasm.  This is really, really new.
第843条评论: I thought the book had a really slow start. In fact, I didn't think I'd make it past the first 20 pages or so - but once you get past the history lesson, the book really picks up. Bouncing between virtual reality, meatspace, the present, and the past, the book follows a very interesting trajectory that had me devouring chapters as quickly as I could.That said, the translation is simply amazing. I really appreciated the popup references inserted for people who might not be entirely up on Chinese history or culture. I also couldn't believe how descriptive the book was. In my experience, translated books always lose something because the true meaning of specific words or phrases may not be culturally significant. However, this book made me feel as though it was a native English speaker who wrote it to a very high reading comprehension level. It didn't feel dumbed down and the grammar was impeccable.Can't wait to continue the trilogy to see where this adventure goes.
第844条评论: After seeing raving reviews of Three-Body, I decided to see what the hype was about. Liu applies commendable usage of flowery language that is uncommon in sci-fi and brings some slightly-original variation to interstellar conflict, but the overall theme reads like a macro vs. micro application of communism on a galactic scale.The read does become laborious and required a fair amount of willpower to push through to the pivotal points in the story, but it was not an absolute waste in the end.Was it interesting? At times.Was it original? The plan to stop humanities technological progression .... somewhat.Was it all it was hyped up to be? Absolutely not.
第845条评论: A slow-burn hard sci-fi with some amazing concepts and a deeply unsettling sense of cosmic horror. Masterfully written and translated, though this is not going to be for everyone. Deeply seated in the Chinese Cultural Revolution and devoted to making the sci-fi ideas very technically fleshed out, this book is for fans of drier science dramas.
第846条评论: The only problem I have with the book is the title.  It should really be "The Four-Body Problem."  (I don't think this is giving any of the story away.) The planet holding the civilization should count as a body in the system too.  Granted the other bodies are much larger than the planet, so from the point of view of those three larger bodies, the fourth (planet) could be modeled simply as a small perturbation of their three-body problem.  But, for a civilization on the fourth body (planet), the dynamics of the fourth body would be very important.  So, for anyone riding on the planet, it would have to be a four-body problem.  Also, in the book, the planet often seems flat, as if the sun always rises at the same time on the whole planet.  It seems like there could be observatories all over the spherical planet and there would be more warning of changes to the relative position of the four bodies (if only by hours).What I liked about the book it is raised many issues that we should be thinking about, most notably how should we react if we suddenly have communication with a civilization from another planet.  Should we welcome them, idolize them, prepare to fight them, hide from them, or something else?  Who should speak for the human race, or for Earth as a whole? Also, it is sort of a morality play about making huge decisions emotionally, without thinking them through.And, I really liked the translation.  The book was translated into English, but it retained enough of the Chinese culture and references that I felt like I was actually in China, not the West. Even so, it was easily readable, it made sense in English.  The translator did a great job.
第847条评论: As the title might suggest, this is a "hard science" science fiction novel. That is, it depends on fantasy to a minimum and its use of science is within the bounds of credibility. While slow to develop (a great deal of time is spent on character background, which, for Western readers unfamiliar with Chinese history, might not be an entirely bad thing), it reads well. The antagonists are a bit cardboard in structure and none, after being presented, ever encounters experiences that result in change in their motivation or behavior, despite the dramatic events of the novel. Well, you have to have bad guys, I suppose. Beyond that gripe, this is a welcome voice telling us a story and doing it well.
第848条评论: A key requirement of any good science fiction, in my opinion, is believability. This is tricky, however, as aiming only at such goal can make for boring predictions. Cixin has done an AMAZING job at balancing imagination with believability. This series has so many brilliant twists that I at times get so jealous of the people in the stories as their lives are so much more exciting than my mundane existence. The backdrop of the story expands dramatically as the plot unfolds, starting from the cultural revolution in the 70s' China, to the clash of two civilizations a few light years apart, to uncountably many more civilizations of various developmental stages, ultimately to the end of the universe.It's so engrossing that I finished all three books (all in Chinese) in 2 days, with minimal amount of interruption for sleep and food. Upon turning the last page of the last book, I felt I had just viewed one possible version of the how the universe will play out in a multiverse (if you buy into this recently popular physics hypothesis).This series left me awakened about how humanity or any other civilization in the universe might evolve. Having a science background, I always thought that the existence of other beings in the universe is almost surely a fact in probability, but I never pondered the Fermi paradox so deeply and considered the possibility raised in Cixin's book. I don't necessarily think the dark-forest theory presented in this series is the only possible hypothesis, but Cixin has done a superlative job describing what the universe would be like if such hypothesis was true.Con: some people say that the characters are less fleshed out than in other good fictions. I concur, especially in some conversations at times. But that doesn't detract one bit from how brilliant this series is as a masterpiece in science fiction.
第849条评论: I think it was a fascinating experience reading a book that is clearly rooted in a different culture and literary tradition. My favorite parts were the explorations of Chinese history, interpersonal interactions, and seeing the stylistic and structural differences of a different culture.The story itself feels like a combination of mystery and hard science fiction. There are confusing twists and turns and more than one reveal. While I do enjoy learning a bit of science or appreciating a particularly concise explanation of a concept, the length and frequency of them in The Three-Body Problem started to grate on me.The thing I couldn’t get past was the brutality and roughness of the book. There are moments of care and interpersonal warmth. There are moments of humor. However I found myself feeling like I was slogging through an emotional grind or a textbook, and I didn’t have the emotional buy-in to make that pleasant.So, glad I read it, but also glad to be done.(Light spoiler below)I think a few of the deeper ideas that Cixun Liu explores are also really fascinating. The idea of an interstellar war over interstellar timeframes involving sabotage of fundamental scientific research is intriguing. Hearing a concise articulation of the idea that scientific leaps forward are based on insight into the fundamental nature of matter is also thought provoking.But like I said, while there are lots of pluses I didn’t actually enjoy the experience of reading it. Read and find out for yourself what you think ^_^
第850条评论: I read The Three-Body Problem at the recommendation of a colleague. I was pleasantly surprised as it gained my attention and prevented me from skipping a single day of reading. Essentially, I recommend for those who like SciFi.
第851条评论: Wow. Just wow. Liu is a modern Asimov. I do not want to give anything big away so I’ll just say this. This is a hard core science fiction book that actually explores theoretical physics in an understandable manner while weaving it all into a very good story about mankind’s first contact with another civilization. And it begins with China’s cultural revolution as the backdrop. If you think science fiction is a western placed in outer space, you will not like it. If you like some actual science with your fiction, you will love it. This is a must read for science fiction fans.
第852条评论: My first Chinese scifi, which is kind of funny anyways. I dont know if they hacked into a book company and stole the idea for this story, but given all else that they do, wouldnt be surprised. Story is interesting and you can clearly feel the communism and asian mentality bleeding through the storyline, which for me was kind of a turn off. But the basic scifi story principles are there and they are good and interesting. I found the ending kind of a twist that has left me thinking...which is rare, so I would recommend it as an item of interest at least.
第853条评论: A science fiction masterpiece and a staple classic in the making. Brilliantly touches on philosophy and asks whether humanity is redeemable on its own.  Examines cycles of power, trauma under the shifting political sphere. Questions the knowable vs the unknowable under the backdrop of credible scientific theories under incredible circumstances.
第854条评论: Excellent story. Excellent translation.The author weaved three genres together in a clever fashion that hooked me before I caught on...and kept me hooked right to the end.One of those books that makes you sorry when you run out of pages to read.
第855条评论: I just reread this (because the third one in the trilogy had just come out, and now I could read the whole thing) and I was struck again by just how GOOD this book is.  If anything, I enjoyed it more the second time than I had the first.  One warning: this may be a better read for physics - y people, but in many ways it seems very different from "traditional" science fiction.  Am really looking forward to the other two.
第856条评论: Great mixture of elements from fantastic science fiction authors. The story is a bit lacking (not unlike Asimov) and there's much more telling than showing which is why I gave it 4 stars. Character development is also a little underwhelming. I'd say I'm 60% going to continue reading the series.
第857条评论: Lots of great writing inside. Not only the plot is sound but the writing is solid. The author displays great knowledge of quantum theory. And great characters like detective captain Da-Shi. When first contact is made by a Chinese astrophysicist who has been mistreated by the cultural revolution,her actions put mankind in a dire situation that threatens the Earth future. Now that his work has been translated into English, Cixin deserves a place as one of the greatest science fiction writers of all times. Excellent!!!
第858条评论: The scale of world creation in this novel is inspiring and thought provoking. You'll learn about physics, culture, and human nature.Second, reading a Chinese work in English on this topic is doubly interesting: how much do we really understand each other and think similar thoughts here on Earth? Do we have any hope of communicating accurately with Others?
第859条评论: Beautiful prose and memorable imagery. An emotional story with a novel plot. Key plot points built around physics problems the author has spent a lot of time thinking about, and who helps you to see those problems through his passionate eyes. A translator who has worked hard to make a story rooted in a foreign culture approachable for American readers. Wry, understated jokes.Altogether, by far the best sci-fi book I've read in a long time.
第860条评论: I made myself complete the book, but it wasn't a "page turner". The main plot, the discovering the conspiracy and Wand Miao, was tiresome. The "drama" boring at times and other times completely over done. The Cultural Revolution plot (Ye Wenjie's) was the only thing keeping it going and it even had a boring ending. I know a few people that have really liked it, but I would never recommend the series. Following this book, it gets even worse.
第861条评论: I really enjoyed this novel.  It isn't the typical fast paced thriller that I usually enjoy, and I had to force myself through the first 100 pages or so.  But it was really worth it.  Once I got into the story, it was extremely compelling, and now that I've finished it, I keep thinking about it.  The sequel comes out next month, and I intend to read it as soon as it is available.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes to think and be entertained at the same time.
第862条评论: A very densely written story about initial alien contact set in contemporary Chinese society, starting during the upheavals of the Cultural Revolution and tracing its consequences for scientists and government officials in the many years and decades since. Much of the story revolves around (orbits!) the three body problem in classical Newtonian physics as it is expressed in an alien planet, Trisolaris, suffering the disastrous ecological consequences of rapid and chaotic changes in the distance of the planet from its various suns. The book makes good use of a total immersion computer game to introduce life on that planet without having to explain how the knowledge was gained.One of the great strengths of the book, as well as its major weakness, is that it is clearly the first in a trilogy, so the detail is immense, as are the loose ends left at its conclusion. I'm going to get the sequel.
第863条评论: This is literally the best science fiction I've read in many years. Cixin Liu has created a word that's not only futuristic, but also foreign. As the book is based in China, has mainly Chinese characters, and refers back to a lot of history (like the Cultural Revolution), everything seems alien to a foreigner who is used to Western-style SciFi like Star Trek or Star Wars, or authors like Asimov, Heinlein, Brin, Card and so-on.I tore through this book in three evenings -- completely compelled by the historical settings, by the characters, by the science (fascinating!) and the plot.This is the beginning of a trilogy that's already published in Chinese. The second book, The Dark Forest, is due on July 7.  I have already ordered it for my Kindle.By the way, the book was translated into English by Ken Liu, who himself is an outstanding science fiction author.This book has been lauded as the best Chinese science fiction book ever. All I can say is, wow. I can't wait for more.
第864条评论: THE..... one to beat. The most beautiful writing I’ve ever been exposed to. Breathtaking. All three books are a must. It has risen the bar and I am now expecting high standards of all writings since. What fantastic places I’ve seen. What amazing laws of physics I’ve been subjected to. What crisp and interesting characters I’ve met. And last but not least,... what a vast distance I’ve travelled.... just from reading this trilogy... all else pales in comparison and I should just stop reading . Lol. No. But , wow! What an amazing story. The translation is what amazes me. Does this book sound so intricate and beautiful in its native writ? More so? Wow. Those people must have had to lay down for a week or so just to come down from the trip. Please.... read these. We will be in a better place if all shared in the content of these books.
第865条评论: It wouldn't be right to say this book reads itself.  That happens from time to time and when it does it's nice.  Three-Body was not so cooperative.  If books were animals, this one was a cat.  Still, it was worth all the effort it demanded.  It was rich and layered; worlds within worlds.  The writing gets better throughout; its harder to translate than compose original text.  I loved the historical references and the way they blended into a fictional present day narrative.  It was also fascinating to experience the author's views on religion.  Judging by the book, they're not very positive but I still enjoyed standing in his shoes.  Give it a shot and stay with it, some things are worth fighting for.
第866条评论: Startlingly great science fiction. Really how can you not love a sci-fi book based (in part) on game theory? The plot is very strong and original, the characters are believable, the science isn’t magic, the perspective is fresh, and I couldn’t put it down. I’d compare it to the Foundation trilogy in terms of its breadth and impact, originality and page-turning excitement.
第867条评论: So, I just had an experience which last I had long, long ago - I've read book in two days flat. I've been working, if not that I'd managed this in a day. This is a Science Fiction at it's best. I definitely will be reading second and third books - and urge all lovers of SciFi to do the same.Also, wonderful work of Ken Liu on translating - and if you like good fantasy, his Dandelion Dynasty books are fantastic!
第868条评论: Immediately upon downloading a Kindle Unlimited book I use Search for several words I'd rather not read (much less type in the search field.)  And, if found, I return the book.  Amazon has no interest in advising readers.If the original writing of "The Three-Body Problem"  was in Chinese, then Cixin Lui's Chinese vocabulary matches that of too many of today's contemporary writers in English.  Bluntly described as crude, vulgar, and uncivilized. (Someone can translate this review to Chinese if they wish.  )
第869条评论: Cixin Liu has written an incredibly inventive novel of science, humanity and philosophy that stuns the imagination.  What a talented and creative author to have conceived of such an undertaking let alone execute it with such perfection.It's thrilling to know that there are two more novels in this incredible saga.
第870条评论: This book would have been more at home in the sci-fi of 40 or 50 years ago. It has some ideas that are interesting enough that one can ignore some of the more cringey takes on science, which I don't really intend as a knock on the book; you could say the same of some of the classics of sci-fi. But where this book really falls down is its writing, and this is not just related to the fact that the book is translated from another language.There are a lot of small problems, but the one that is most jarring is that the book drifts off into incredibly long passages of exposition that choke any life or action out of the narrative. Indeed, some characters seem to exist fairly transparently for the purposes of providing exposition. Many books do this, of course, but there are ways of making it a little less obvious and it begins to grate fairly quickly in this case. The writer seems to take the mantra of "show, don't tell" and deliberately reverse it, even to the point where it seems to be instructing the reader as to how they should think or feel about events of the book.This is not the worst thing I've read, not by a country mile. But when it's advertised as a Hugo winner, well, I was very disappointed.
第871条评论: Just finished reading. Engrossing and easy to read translation. Nice mysteries to pierce. The science at the heart of the story seems feasible and probable. To avoid any spoiler, all I'lll say is I understand string theory a little better--I don't know if the analogies are reasonable. They sure convinced me of the danger described in the book. I'll read the others of the trilogy when I can get a good price for them. But, I always do that.
第872条评论: it was a refreshing surprise and although I thought the end was a little too roug I already bought the second volume.
第873条评论: Thank you Obama. I am but a speck of dust. Can’t wait for life in the second dimension. Free Tibet!
第874条评论: Gripping narrative with shadows of the current and recent history turned towards the stars. Casts the resonance of the cultural revolution and its warring factions into a global scale,  twists and turns happily for the reader.
第875条评论: Reads like a mediocre pseudo-intellectual trying to impress a bunch of village idiots with how much he knows (never mind that a lot of it is nonsense). The author seems to be cramming in as many references as possible, like a pompous high schooler anxious to impress an audience of his peers. A bunch of name-dropping (Einstein, Newton, von Neumann, Asimov, ad infinitum) only reinforces that impression. Unfortunately, the author only succeeds in revealing the pitiful shallowness of his knowledge.The characters are less than one-dimensional and completely impossible to empathise with or relate to. The narration is unengaging and expository in the extreme.In short, a complete waste of time.
第876条评论: This work brings both exciting new science fiction concepts and a distinctly different cultural context. It presents a plausible future extended from the historical recent past of China. It is so incommensurable with western science fiction that a review like this one cannot prepare a reader for the experience of it.
第877条评论: This was a great read. I wasn't really sold on reading a Chinese translation, but the ideas and concepts come across very clearly. I read a lot of SF and now have to consider this one of my all time favorites. I liked it so much I've already started The Dark Forest and have high hopes for it as well.
第878条评论: Good, imaginative plot. But there’s a lot of in-depth science explanation throughout which was good, but by then end felt like overkill.
第879条评论: First off... the author who did the translation from Chinese... did a wonderful job.The story as written by the original author... is not written like most stories.Maybe I've become accustomed to stories that try to pull the reader into the feelings of the main character(s)......and this story does not do that.This book tells a story.  And that is about all it does.
第880条评论: The Three-Body problem was an excellent book. The science can be a little daunting but the historical narrative and character development make for a great read. Can't wait to read the second book in the series.
第881条评论: Good story but tedious to read sometimes.  The book was originally written in Chinese so that's a strong benefit to reading this story.  I suspect some things got lost in translation.  For example, all conversations read like they come from robots.  There's no "tone" as you're reading.  A bit odd but otherwise a good story.
第882条评论: I've heard so many good things about this series, but I also hear "it gets better, you just have to get through the first book". After completing "The Three Body Problem" my only thought is I can't wait to finish writing this review so I can buy the next book and continue this amazing story. Expertly done translation as well if anyone is worried about that. Reading Chinese names took some getting used to but after the story grabbed me everything else faded into the background and I couldn't stop reading.
第883条评论: I dont get it... I read hundreds od science fiction books and was told this was a must read... Don't get it... Story was boring... did China buy this hugo award because it just didn't keep me engaged at all... technology and storyline had to many unexplained leaps...
第884条评论: I am a big fan of physics. I do appreciate a book that builds on known science and then moves it forward with a little speculation. I liked the characters very much and the references to the Cultural Revolution. I lost my enthusiasm when the computer proton appeared. It is ok for me to read about science being stretched a little, but when you make a proton that is a computer and can harbor a civilization you have just lost my interest completely.
第885条评论: It begins in the Chinese Cultural Revolution and ends with the prospect of another more advanced civilization from Alpha Centauri embarked on a mission to colonize Earth while treating its human populations as "bugs".  I suppose the whole is coherent, but I found it rather disconnected.  Moreover, the characters did not compel my interest.  The science, or rather "science," is inventive and more speculative than most sf; I was particularly amused at the prospect of a digital computer composed of people.  But I wasn't overwhelmed by this highly acclaimed novel, and I won't go on to the next two volumes.
第886条评论: The Three-Body Problem is ... "too blunt", I guess is the best phrase. The characters lack any kind of depth or differentiation (except Da Shi, he was pretty easy to spot in a crowd) even such that the aliens sounded just like us Earthers, information given in flashbacks or long monologues, and no tension to draw the reader along. Part of it might be a translation problem and part of it might be a cultural problem. The book isn't structured in a way that Western readers may be familiar with. Instead of the rising action-climax-falling action, the book meanders between one expository scene after another without really telling us anything intriguing. Ah well.
第887条评论: In today's conspiracy driven social media world, this story hits close to home - so pay attention. This will make a awesome Netflix series some day!
第888条评论: I don't normally write reviews, but felt that this book really needs a counter to all the glowing recommendations that it has received. Some spoilers. It has three major problems:1. Terrible Writing - This is a text book counter example to the "show, don't tell" story telling rule. The book reads like a detailed wikipedia description of a plot. The dialog is totally unnatural and simply used as an alternative to exposition. The effect is that you get no emotional involvement in the material. Seriously hard to read.2. Terrible Characters - There's essentially only one character in the book, a middle aged, single, engineer devoid of feelings. One of the main characters is a married father, but you'd never know it. His family is only mentioned in one scene and they never factor in to his thought process. Another main character kills her husband and her daughter with no emotional ramifications at all. A character gets a probably fatal dose of radiation poisoning and has no reaction. And on and on.3. Pacing - Parts of the book are very slow. This isn't a killer in and of itself, but coupled with unimaginative writing and lackluster characters, it makes for a very boring read.Sci-fi and Fantasy often get by on plot alone and don't have great writing or characters, but this book takes it to such extremes that it can't overcome the deficiencies.
第889条评论: Starts as a curious tale about aspects of the chinese cultural revolution and it's fallout within the academia of the time (things which I had very little knowledge of, but sent me scampering to Wikipedia for more background on people and events that were mentioned), and evolves into a fascinating and unique modern-day sci-fi story.It's never particularly fast paced, but still very engrossing and quite difficult to put down.I am eagerly awaiting the publication of the next installment.
第890条评论: The overall premise and execution is excellent with a unique premise. But like all translated works, it feels like something was lost. It could be just the translators decision to maintain the language structure of the original Chinese, but in the end, it doesn't read exactly like an American novel. This is okay, but just be prepared.
第891条评论: Really liked this book because its enjoyable science fiction and different.  From my American perspective, some of the Chinese political references seemed odd, but not off putting.  Could make a great science fiction movie.  Excellent pacing, interesting characters and do we humans really want to be noticed out there in the universe?
第892条评论: The author is an extraordinary writer who has created a multi-level trilogy of great complexity and interest.  Alas, I found myself enormously depressed after reading the last book. The author has been compared with Arthur C. Clarke, but while I agree that he writes with a knowledge of science, the development of plot, and the creation of characters that are almost as good as Mr. Clarke's, I found the persistent deaths of characters by treachery, murder, and suicide and the ultimate inability of two intelligent species at high technological levels to see the irrationality of mutually assured destruction and proceed down that path depressing and deflating.  With Mr. Clarke's books there was always an underlying note of optimism about humanity, and I found that utterly lacking in my reading of these books. They made me want to seek out a prescription for anti-depression medications.
第893条评论: A deep fascinating account of first contact. Expertly and imaginatively written.Couldn't put it down. Cannot wait to find out how it goes. Not looking too hopeful at this stage.Ye should be executed.
第894条评论: Remarkably imaginative and insightful science fiction, but the best part is the striking "realist" depiction of the Cultural Revolution at the beginning.
第895条评论: Very nice first book to introduce this Trilogy. Very well thought story and characters. Nicely written (and translated). Must buy.
第896条评论: I don't know if it is accurate but the descriptions of the Cultural Revolution's twists and turns are fascinating.
第897条评论: Science fiction presented in a way most american writers don’t show. The character and plot build up to push through the end is brilliant.
第898条评论: Possibly one of the most brilliant opening sequences I have ever read in Chinese literature.... and then downhill from there.  Ultimately it degenerates into a second or third-rate sci-fi novel with superficial characters and nonsensical social dynamics.
第899条评论: First time reading one of Mr. Liu's works.  Not impressed  with his style, or the pace of the novel.  In my opinion he got lost in the weeds and this hindered the storyline.  Will probably not read the subsequent two novels related to this one.
第900条评论: I had to stop reading around 65%.  I will finish it eventually, but this pacing of this book is SLOW.  That being said, it's a decent story with some cool historical fiction sprinkles.  It's just a bit dissonant somehow.
第901条评论: A very innovative idea for a science fiction novel, but it was featured clearly only in the last third of the novel.  I found that the first part of the novel moved too slowly, and I skipped over parts of it.
第902条评论: I'm not much of a reader, but this book will captivate even non-readers. The plot is original and builds anticipation as the pages turn.
第903条评论: Some good ideas. Preamble to the next novel but a few truly scary insights. All three could have been condensed to one.
第904条评论: While I enjoyed the sweeps and surprises of the story, in the end I found the English translation to be less than satisfactory in execution. Many times the story was choppy, short sentenced and stilted, at others it flowed much better with some hint at what I think is the originals style.
第905条评论: I don't get it. This book is written in a dry, narrow manner. It has the feel of being written by someone who is a high functioning Aspergers individual. I found it to be weirdly specific and overly amorphous. It did not flow well. Save your time and money. Read Baxter, Asimov, Attanasio, or any of the famous science fiction writers of the past 50 years. I have read many of them and this book is not even close. We live in a time where the perception of quality has slipped to unfathomable levels..think Bud Lite, White Castle, Margarine, Dunkin Donuts. Include this dry tome.
第906条评论: One of the most thought provoking pieces of Sci Fi lit I have ever read. I can't wait to start The Dark Forest!
第907条评论: Conceptually brilliant.  Writing/translation is prosaic though.
第908条评论: A classic topic from a different view.
第909条评论: This isn't your typical aliens are coming novel. The author weaves the plot around to keep the audience guessing, but at the same time, the characters keep it familiar. The physics concepts are fun to try to visualize and by the end of the book, the history, future, and present is brought together very neatly. Awesome read!
第910条评论: After reading The Red Rising series I was looking for another bit of sci fi satisfaction.  After a not so great book (talk that shall remain nameless) I came upon The Three Body problem.  Not only only is the storyline fantastic but the science here has rekindled an interest in physics.Highly recommended.
第911条评论: This book is not for the feint of heart as you have to wade through a lot of information and storytelling to find out what is going on.  But it is well worth it.  One of the most imaginative and creative books I have read in years.
第912条评论: Starts off slow, but gradually builds towards the end. It’s mostly backstory to set up the context in which all the character’s decisions are made, but I’m very excited to read the other books as a result. It definitely helps having some science/math knowledge.
第913条评论: This book was a fantastic read from beginning to end. While being in the science-fiction genre, there are so many principles of physics discussed that I must admit that I had a hard time distinguishing what was fiction and science at times. Everything was clearly very well thought out and to be honest, I really felt like I could believe that what I was reading really existed.Highly recommended for anyone with the slightest interest in physics and philosophical ideas centering around the human race. I cannot wait for the rest of the series to be released!
第914条评论: First of all I want to state clearly that I liked this book. The reason I gave it three stars is because it may not be for everyone. Do you remember those old Jackie Chan films from the late 70s with a great concept and good fighting scenes but contrived plot that left you feeling something was lost in translation ? If you liked those films you will love this book and it's sequels. If that's not the case then you should try some other works of fiction.
第915条评论: This book is comprehensive in so many ways. It challenges the reader continually to think, speculate, and reevaluate.  Additionally,  the author demonstrates a comprehensive understanding of many disciplines and the ability to integrate them to tell an engaging story.  As a westerner I appreciated learning more about China and having the center of humanity being in such a different culture.
第916条评论: The characters are awesome. The story is mystery, science fiction, who dunit, Revolution, altogether. It was hard to put down once I began. I will say that the last 15% of the book has some tough imagination required. The author does a great job at explaining, but it's difficult to follow explanations of aspects of physics. The 3 Body game scenes are really great.
第917条评论: It was an interesting start to a book, but felt very translated. I could understand the general vibes of the settings, but the translation missed some quality or emphasis I believe the Chinese version might of had.
第918条评论: The cover has a 'Coming to Netflixs' advertisement that is not shown in your description of the product and makes the book cover look ugly. I bought the book - I don't care if there is a TV show and I certainly didn't want permanent advertisements for that TV show on the cover of my book.
第919条评论: Really interesting sci-fi book. I was nervous about a Chinese author, because of politics and culture difference, but they were handled and exploited commendably. The science and philosophy of the book is complicated enough to be interesting, but not too complicated to not be able to follow. I can't wait to read the next two books!
第920条评论: Unfortunately to me this book is poorly written,  though it might be the translation. Very intriguing concept though poor story and character development with too much unnatural dialogue. It also meanders. Science is marginal. If I have the time line correct, bubble chambers were antiquated by the point they’re supposedly utilized, though I may have missed something. I have the second book which has a different translator so perhaps the series will improve.
第921条评论: This book is so intelligently written; it incorporates virtually all aspects of physics, from Newton laws, to maxwells equations, to quantum mechanics and does so in a manner that leaves the reader thinking "what if this actually happened".  I devoured this book in a matter of 3 days and cannot wait to read the next one.I'd recommend this book to anybody who had a remote interest in phyics or loves a thought provoking story.
第922条评论: Very elegant way to call us bugs! I enjoyed the book but some chapters felt very boring. I would agree with the translator that it is not easy to translate a culture, but he did well.
第923条评论: I can only add my review to the other one-stars on here. What a disappointment. I am baffled by how this book was mentioned in the press, let alone positively reviewed, and even less how it won the Hugo Award. The writing is childish and awkward. I found myself repeatedly having to re-read sentences because they did not flow. There is zero character development. In fact, the characters are downright not believable and their actions are non-sensical. I developed no empathy for any of them. The storyline is disjointed and childish. I will admit that it is at times unpredictable -- but this is not because it's ingenious, but simply because it's nonsensical. Half the book is spent inside a videogame that serves no purpose - think Ready Player One, except terrible. Not recommended.
第924条评论: Extremely well written with deep research into a variety of scientific theories and problems. I loved the fact that it's based in China. Both cultural and historic references were mindblowing.
第925条评论: This Sci fi book is written by a guy much smarter than me but is a good read.
第926条评论: This first book of the trilogy was recommended by president Obama on his reading list in the New York Times article.  So I took a chance out of my busy schedule and now having finished it feel amply rewarded.  It made me appreciate our planet with its one reliable sun!
第927条评论: A very interesting SyFy read which doesn’t suffer from being a translated work. If you’re a Science Fiction reader, this is a book that should be on your ‘must read’ list.
第928条评论: A book of science fiction that refreshingly uses science to give a sense of realism to fiction. A fantastic read, and a book that had me thinking about it every time I set it down.
第929条评论: Probably the best science fiction novel I have read in the last few decades. While the science may have some technical gaps, this is more than made up by the creativity in the approach to the potential applications of said science which are excellent. Furthermore the alien world while not completely realistic is one of the most clever ideas for a planet that I have ever seen.
第930条评论: Took me forever to finish this book. At first I thought it was the character names but in the end I thought the story was shallow and unbelievable. I just couldn’t believe that someone could loose all hope and doom the human race.
第931条评论: I got it a long time ago, but didn't get around to it until now, but was VERY impressed by it.
第932条评论: I liked some of the concepts and found the melding of Chinese history fascinating. However I lost interest around mid way through. I would say it is still a worthwhile read but can’t say I was fascinated the whole way through. It does pick up at the end but leaves it hanging for sequels.
第933条评论: Liked it enough to buy the second book in the trilogy :-)
第934条评论: There's a pop up add printed on the front of this book. What
第935条评论: This book won a 2015 Hugo, although it was published in Chinese almost 10 years ago.  I enjoyed the story, although it was sometimes difficult to keep the timeline straight in my head.  Much of the story is told in flashbacks, and it's not always clear when they happened.  One has to suspend one's disbelief, in terms of the science presented.  There is a sequel, and it was set up fairly neatly in the ending chapter.
第936条评论: It builds up for the second and third books. You don't understand the plot until 60% of the book is over. I bought the second one because my friend told me that the first one is a little boring because he has to build it up.
第937条评论: The author simultaneously presents fresh ideas in an otherwise familiar Earth setting, a gaming virtual world, and far beyond.  Original ideas.  The cultural background in China adds to the story and sent me looking up some of the historical references.  I will definitely read the other books in this trilogy.
第938条评论: There is SF and there is hardcore SF. This is definitely in the latter group at the expense of characterisation and the human factor. The players are 2 dimensional and seem to exist only for the author to flesh out all the technical jargon in the book. Sure, Liu come across as an expert in the field but this is no 'weekend curled up in bed' kind of book. At times it can get as technical as a textbook of astrophysics and quantum physics.
第939条评论: Wow, this is one of the best SF novels I've read in a long time. I was intrigued by the idea of it being originally a Chinese work, but the translation makes it easily accessible for English speaking readers as well. It doesn't read exactly like a Western novel, but that's okay -- I really enjoyed the cultural style differences, and the plot and story development are absolutely top notch.I highly recommend this book to any SF fan!
第940条评论: It's been a while since I read this book, but I really enjoyed the use of real physics and math to drive the plot.  No "warp drives", although there is faster than light communications, for which there is a very slim theoretical basis.  It is also thought provoking on the subject the consequences of how we might choose to communicate to an alien civilization.
第941条评论: Ironically the book embraced  exactly the concept of what I want to see in a SF book vs the Western "shoot it up, but with lasers" type, but it went way too far over the other side and it was actually impossible (for me at least) to stay up with the plot.. Beware of what one wishes for.Charlie
第942条评论: In my opinion, this book is a little overhyped. I mean the ratings and reviews plus the award seem like a no-brainer. As I progressed through the story and I did enjoy it. However, I felt it was slow to start then the ending seems like too simple. Even if the twist and science part were cool. Yet, the maze of the secret organization felt like a Girl or Boy Scout type. Nothing wrong with that but that doesn’t suit me too well. I would take a peek at or a few chapters in the next book anyway.
第943条评论: The Three-Body Problem is an interesting combination of social commentary, hard science and science fiction.  It is well written and engaging.  The characters are interesting but only one or two are fully developed.The book is cohesive and leading to something but for the first 2/3 of the book it is unclear what story the author intends to tell.  The last 1/3 of the book is where the real premise of the story begins to take shape.  So why write the first 2/3? to frame the premise within the social commentary.I liked the book and I plan to read the second book in the series soon.  It was very interesting and definately written in a different style than most sci-fi that I have read.
第944条评论: This is a classic hard sci fi first contact novel that is so completely rooted in Chinese history and eastern culture that the resulting product is unique. I first heard about this novel when in China, and it manages to provide an accurate take on the Cultural Revolution while being rooted deeply in hard sci traditions of Benford, Fast and Niven as well as the cultural anthropology aspect (of different civilizations, human and non-) of writers such as Leguin, and Clement. Fast's Dragon's egg is particularly relevant here also; the story line here is the converse of Dragon's Egg in many ways. There are some similarities to ender's game as well. Lots of creativity here. This is is all combined with a spare, but not dry writing that in style in some places I can imagine would be what Kurosawa might have written had he not been a film director. Those who have read Tomoe Gozen will find it similar in some respects.
第945条评论: I don’t believe I’ve read science fiction written by a Chinese author before.  The social dynamics described in this book are at times almost as interesting as the main storyline.  On top of the social structures, Cixin Liu takes what feels like a hard sci-fi approach to the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence, and the impact it could have upon human society.  Both of these aspects made it an enjoyable read.Readers should know that this story is definitely part of a larger whole.  It doesn’t end in a satisfying place if you’re only reading one book in the trilogy.  I’m looking forward to continuing the story, and have already purchased “The Dark Forest.”
第946条评论: Haven't read any science fiction for quite some time, but reviews of this book caught my fancy. It is a very deep and philosophical human interest drama coupled with fascinating science fiction ideas. Also included in this part of the trilogy is a great deal of information about life in China during the disastrous "Cultural Revolution" and what this movement did to many people caught up in it. As the story progresses one starts to wonder when the science fiction part of the plot will kick in, and gradually it emerges in increasing depth and ingenuity.  By the time you're nearing the end of this book you are hooked and eager to move on and read the next in the series (the "Dark Forest").  I am halfway into that book now and soon to order the third and final book of the series. Full of incredible surprises.  Amazing work by the translators.
第947条评论: Fantastic science-driven plot!  The characters are flimsy and two dimensional, but the mystery is so good I didn't care.
第948条评论: This is either the best or one of the best science fiction novels I have ever read.  Combines a compelling story line with some deep understanding of science.  I cannot say anything about the plot because I would hate to reveal anything about this novel.  It is a brilliant journey that I recommend lovers of science and fiction embark upon.
第949条评论: You may think if/when the day comes that we learn of other beings in the universe, that it will be a great day...I promise you that this book may well cause you to rethink that...as well as your position on many other things in life.This book is written from the perspective of every day Chinese people...and their views on life....and their experiences and if you can allow yourself not to get too hung up on the names, you are going to be taken to places and sciences and thoughts that will challenge you, entertain you and maybe even frighten you a little bit.Highly Recommended!  Now its on to Book 2 in the three book series.
第950条评论: One has to read the entire trilogy to begin to grasp the breadth and depth of the author's vision. These three books are beyond a sci-fi epic. For me, he is in uncharted territory as far as the scope of the trilogy. His heritage certainly appears to power and direct his view. The world where Cixin Liu starts casually meters out the deaths of thousands over a period of a decade. Finally, he deals casually with the deaths of TRILLIONS over a period of centuries. I was often overwhelmed as I tried to digest the horror. It was easy to see why he is the best selling sci-fi author in China today. 4.5 stars
第951条评论: Awesome story, great imagination! Well worth your investment to get to an understanding. This guy can write and spin quite a tale.
第952条评论: It was a fine read, and I'll be picking up the sequel, but people seriously need to tamp down the hype. This was not revolutionary, genre-defying science fiction. The premise is intriguing, even though the actual story doesn't become at all clear until the book's half-way point. The characters are flat, the language is stilted, the pacing is fairly glacial, and the sheer amount of exposition in the back-nine is staggering. I still enjoyed it. It does subvert some tropes, and I'm curious about where the story will go in subsequent books. This novel did not, however, make my mind melt like it seems to have for some other reviewers.
第953条评论: Only for sci fi fans. Action is a bit slow and very descriptive, but a real connection with the present day is very palpable. Highly recommended!
第954条评论: This book is a must read. Wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow
第955条评论: This is a much different sci-fi book than I’m used to reading. Technical in parts which required me to really focus, or reread them. It’s good but I’m not sure how good the trilogy will be. I read the Wheel of Time series before this, so it’s not fair to compare but this is a completely different genre.
第956条评论: I look forward to the sequels. Well written.  Characters well crafted. Actually surprises that Liu has so much freedom of expression in China
第957条评论: Of fiction and non-fiction. I get historical references that taught me about other countries while being fascinated at the possibilities of concepts presented in the book. A great read and looking forward to the next two books in the series.
第958条评论: Cixin Liu's first book of the three book series, The Three Body Problem, was a great start to the series.  It kept me interested and I found the translation from Chinese was very smooth.  Not that I've read the original text but the numerous footnotes by the translator allows a reader to absorb the Chinese context of statements made by various characters.  The characters are rich, well developed, and easily understood by western readers.
第959条评论: The writing was lovely, the characters complex and convincing.  The setting in the cultural revolution and after was also well drawn.  The alien society was also most imaginative and convincing.  But I didn't finish the book... very unusual for me.  Could not swallow the plot line, which had the aliens, due to arrive in 400 years, destroying the morale of basic scientists on Earth, to prevent us from effectively resisting the invasion when got here.  So it made the book look too much like a promotion of the import of basic science... which I believe in very strongly, aliens or no aliens.  But propaganda in novels bugs me.
第960条评论: 3.5 stars. A little slow in places, because this is an epic work. It takes that long to set the stage. It also means I was just getting into it when the book came to an end. If the next two books are good, I’d raise this to 4*
第961条评论: The plot was fine, but I didn’t feel connected to any particular character. They were like cardboard cutouts. It was like a description of a video game for blind people.
第962条评论: I went back and forth on if I wanted to knock this book down a star for having such an abrupt ending, but opted to preserve the perfect ranking, because it just sucked me in so deeply. My main complaint is that it really feels more like a prequel than the first book in a series—more a Hobbit than a Fellowship of the Ring—but it still does a great job of presenting an interesting story.This story takes place in two worlds, sort of. One is the real world, and most particularly China, where Wang Miao finds his work in nanotech suddenly blocked, for no apparent reason. It is in investigating this strange curtailing of progress that he finds the game “Three-Body Problem,” where he is introduced to a society experiencing strange celestial and meteorological phenomena. What seems to be a simple game with an obvious conclusion (especially given its title) is revealed as something more revolutionary, and far, far more dangerous.And then the book ends. And you just sit there, wondering where the other half of the book was lost, after it fell out of your copy. But there are no lost pages. Just a second book, which is already on request for me at my library. I'm pretty sure it's being shot to the top of my listening list the moment the audiobook arrives!It's an amazing book, and it will please any reader setting out on it today, but oh man, I am so sorry for those of you that read it right when it came out and who then had to wait on the sequel. That must have blown.
第963条评论: Very disappointing. This was such a highly rated and reviewed book! Nominated for a Nebula in 2014 (and a bunch of other awards), AND the 2015 Hugo winner.So what's wrong with  *me*?Well, let me say that I found the first 1/4 of the book to be riveting. I loved it. The beginning of a hard-sf novel in the midst of the cultural revolution was absolutely fascinating. Brilliant idea, and brilliant execution.But then the middle half left me floundering. The novel, if you don't already know, centers around a video-game / simulation of a strange world in which the motion of the sun(s) appears almost completely random. But in the non-randomness, there is a multi-generational attempt to predict when the times of abundance would come, and when the times of great lethality would come. This, of course, is the titular three-body problem, in which three suns in orbit around each other put this wandering planet, caught in the midst of it all, a place hostile to life.But we learn fairly early on that this is not just a theoretical example. This is the actual species-history of an alien life form.And there is a mysterious connection between this simulation and the suicide or other death of many prominent scientists.I am no expert in astronomy, but the actual descriptions of the suns around this world left me extremely skeptical. Once I grasped the central tenet, I choose to suspend disbelief and go with the flow, for sake of unveiling the mystery.But the final quarter of the book turned a corner. A very strange corner.This went from literary science fiction in a historical/cultural/astro-physics model to a something more reminiscent of Stanslaw Lem or Haruki Murakami.And THEN it devolved into pure magic.I read fantasy books, too. I love magic. But in this context it felt like the book descended into asbolute drivel.Obviously, many people love and admire this book. I'm not saying anyone's wrong. I'm just saying it didn't work for me. And if any of this resonates, it might not work for you either. Or, maybe I sound like a joyless nerd, in which case, maybe this is exactly the RIGHT book for you!
第964条评论: If you’re gonna read a story about spoiler, and you think spoiler is an unrealistic plot, this book is for you because it makes spoiler seem plausible. Also the last few chapters are impossible to put down; i ended up binging the last 20% of the book or so, until 2:30 am, even though id been reading the first 80% over the course of two weeks or so.
第965条评论: (Cross-post from GoodReads) This book was pretty awesome.  At first the book didn't seem like sci-fi, but more like historical fiction set in China's Cultural Revolution.  I like historical fiction too but it thew off my expectation of a sci-fi book at first.  I thought I knew a fair amount about the modern Chinese history because I took a class when I did a summer abroad in Shanghai. But actually after reading the book I realized I didn't know that much because I didn't even know the difference between the People's Liberation Army and the Red Guard.  So I learned some history from the book and also some science and technology as well as some philosophical ideas.  I do computer stuff as a profession and I've started getting into amateur radio and those parts of the sci-fi in the book seem to be believable and well thought out. The other science and technology aspects that I'm less familiar with also seem to be believable too (it's sci-fi so of course you need to stretch what's believable). I enjoyed the cultural/historical and science/tech details, but I'm sure it might not be for everyone.  Even though I know Chinese a bit, it was sometimes difficult to keep track of the names (though not as difficult as the Russian/French names in War and Peace), but I saw that the paperback version has a list of characters (Kindle does not).  If someone were not familiar with Chinese name order and nickname conventions (e.g. "Da Shi" and and "Xiao Wang"), it might be harder to keep track of the characters. But to me the historical/cultural and scientific/technical details made the book a pleasantly challenging learning experience. I'm eager to start the 2nd book...
第966条评论: This was such a refreshing sci-fi book. The characters had such depth. I'm hooked and I want to read the rest of the series.
第967条评论: Originally I passed on this book. Even in one of those desparate hunts for something new to read it didn't resonate with me. So I have to admit picking it up to see what the kerfuffle was about. What kind of book do all those sick puppies think unworthy of a Hugo award?It turns out the book they think unworthy is incredible. And ironically their ideological pogrom fits perfectly within the book!You want big ideas? It's there and there again.You want something different? I've never read anything like it before. This is so not a colonial dudes-rule-everything universe.You want to learn something? You will. Not only about science and human nature, but of an era probably only someone from China can communicate fully. It's fascinating.You want big scary aliens? You got 'em.You want high table stakes? How about the future of humanity?You want that unsettled feeling you get when you both deeply disagree and agree with an idea? Oh yes, that little knife twist is there.You want great writing? I'd say the writing is good, with many moments of greatness. In particular the beginning prose really pops. Then the writing moves the story along nicely with brief forrays back into lusciousness.A worthy winner in my estimation. It's a great story well told. And that's what it's all about.
第968条评论: Good but not great. Some of the scientific speculation is very stimulating, e.g. supercomputers embedded in 11D protons, using the sun as an amplifier for interstellar communication, etc. The pacing is fast. The story's backdrop is very interesting. However, as a whole the narrative doesn't connect, the characters are poorly developed, and there are major and very obvious plot holes, mostly as a result of how the scientific and technological elements are poorly connected to the narrative. How come the aliens can read the very first message that was accidentally sent by earth and are subsequently capable of sending an eloquent, cogent, and rather emotional reply in a human language? This is explained away in 1 line further down the book: the messages are self-decoding! Anyone who knows anything about this subject knows this is a bogus plot device, but here it is absolutely crucial to making the story work. The mysterious and exciting things happening early in the book are another example: countdowns appearing on people's retinas and photos, the universal background radiation sending Morse code, international accelerator experiments yielding incongruent results, etc. All of this is explained away at the end of the book when one alien details to another how they managed to encode 2 magically omnipotent supercomputers in the 11 dimensional structure of 2 entangled protons that the aliens shoot to Earth, so they can be everywhere at the same time and mess with humanity and their science. There's actually an alien explaining "multi-tasking" and "entanglement" to his King! This is nothing more than a silly "deus ex machina". The book has been praised as solid "hard science fiction", but it is not. It treats science and technology as magic. The writer frequently reveals a deep lack of understanding about physics, linguistics, psychology, chemistry, computer science, and technology.The book felt like an odd mix of Vonnegut's literary science fiction and the recent Interstellar movie. I love the former, but very much disliked the latter because of similar magical plot devices.
第969条评论: A unique story that grounds itself in plausible science. I was hooked after the first 50 pages. I highly recommend this book.
第970条评论: While I felt the story dragged at times, it was an incredible first contact story with a surprising conclusion. Recommended for hard SF readers.
第971条评论: In general I enjoyed reading this book. Especially the first 60% was really good and exciting. Towards the end of the book, it became, at least some parts a bit cheesy.
第972条评论: I'm really not a fan of science fiction, but I had a curiosity about the three body problem and an affinity for things Chinese.  To me, science fiction must be somewhat believable.  This novel was not.  For instance, where did the "countdown" messages come from, and how did they manage to come in the form of such human inventions as hours and Morse Code?  And that a singe proton can be converted into a mega computer by flipping a couple dimensions... too far out for me.On the plus side - the English translation by Ken Liu is excellent.  I did enjoy reading the book because of his language, even though I couldn't stomach the plot.
第973条评论: A book that would have been better served in the form of a novella.  A story with a political agenda set in a science fiction (SF) structure.  A few interesting concepts:  how to address the "unsolvable" three-body problem; the simple RPG simulation of an alien environment.  Overall, the SF-format is being used as a platform for espousing a philosophy and is almost anti-science (when the majority of SF-readers are science oriented, it always seems a bit bizarre that an author uses SF-writings to denounce those readers and expect those same readers to purchase said writings -- Liu isn't the only author to do this.)  Since the story uses SF as a plot device rather than as a critical component (exploring the implications of a technology or scientific "fact") of the story, the story should have at least still kept with the basic rule of good science fiction:  succinctness.
第974条评论: There's a lot to like about this book. A scifi novel rooted in China and recent chinese history is excitingly fresh and different. It is also clearly a science fiction, not a space fantasy, with science and philosophy taking lead roles. The initial jumps in perspective and time periods however, do kill a lot of the tension and towards the end there's a long section that reads more like a synopsis than an integral part of the story. A good read, nevertheless with a lot of fascinating ideas throughout.
第975条评论: A layered unique story. Looking forward to reading the sequels. It doesn’t have a huge  punch but a slow build of drama that keeps you interested.
第976条评论: This is a science fiction masterpiece - hard SF in the great tradition. While reading, I was reminded of some of the greats, like Neal Stephenson's "Snow Crash", and Vernor Vinge's "A Deepness in the Sky". Besides the beautifully realized aliens and exotic technologies, it finds some of the darkest parts of human nature. And it manages to do this in a contemporary setting, not some wild future where rules don't matter. And as a bonus, we get flashback hard SF set in China's Cultural Revolution. I loved the heck out of this book, and can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy!
第977条评论: GREAT PRICE AND SHIPPED NEXT DAY.
第978条评论: It was exciting to read a translation of sci fi from Chinese to English.... the format and emphases of the story seemed different than most American Sci fi, so the plot seemed slower to unfold and the characters more opaque to me.. mostly bc it’s just a different way of telling a story. But ultimately, it seems to be most about creating a new world and uncovering the science behind that world. An enjoyable read... still wondering if I should read the other 2 though.
第979条评论: Combine a Larry Niven-esque exploration of the ramifications of a physical principle with authentic, compelling characters and Ray Bradbury's sense of the character of a place-time, and you would get Liu Cixin's set of talents in creating Three Body Problem. For the reader unfamiliar with the history of the Chinese people in the 20th century, certain scenes may be as unfamiliar as if, for example, a modern Chongqing resident were reading about Bradbury's Waukegan.This book barely made the Hugo nomination cutoff because it's not as well known as something like Dresden Files, but was the clear favourite of voters when it came time to pick a winner. Why? Because voters got mailed a copy of the novel, and not having previously heard of it, they read it and loved it.
第980条评论: The book I received has an unsightly Netflix ad printed right on the cover. Amazon needs to update their images because I would not have purchased this had I known.
第981条评论: I am a simple blue collar science fiction reader that discovered his hunger for "hard" science fiction after attending two of Carl Sagan's lectures. Never in the world did I think that a Chinese writer would be able to leave me feeling so satiated...while still hungry for more.The hard science of trying to imagine living in an unfathomable 3 star solar system, and then taking me by the hand into the quantum eleven dimension world of a particle. This is not for the lazy TV drama fantasy reader.Then for the first time to fully look at the Cultural Revolution through Chinese eyes as those eyes are turned towards the sky...to share that worldview. The translator deserves the highest awards because he has brought us closer to our Chinese Brothers.
第982条评论: This story is thought experiment Sci Fi at it's best.After finishing the book, I have revised this review from 5 to 4 stars:Something Ken Liu said in his translator's note at the very end: "The best translations into English do not in fact read as if they were originally written an English.  The words are arranged in such a way that the reader sees a glimpse of another culture's pattern of thinking…. rhythms,.. cadence… ” This book gets 4 solid stars from me because 90% of it was awesome.  The other 10% I think was designed for a non-American audience, and I am willing to accept it as part of the story because the rest was so good.The book had me absolutely riveted by page 20 or so.  The metaphor of the game Three Body was incredibly well-done.  I had the feeling that this part of the book was written first, and the rest of the story sprang from that idea.  It was creative and interesting and well written, and it permeated the whole novel.  The end of the book with the “real” Three Body and the introduction of new characters was not interesting.  It was pretty silly, honestly, and I think most American audience members will see these last couple chapters as worn-out and hackneyed.  I suspect it was part of the original, but should not have made it into the translation in the same form.  It should have been a catalog of transmissions or conversations on the ship Judgement Day or an appendix or…anything besides what it was. I found it uninteresting and silly.90% off the book, 5 stars easily.
第983条评论: Good read! A bit technical at times but overall a good story about science, technology, and human nature. I would recommend it!
第984条评论: Could not put this one down. Very weird and inventive, a couple sections were a slog to get through with lots of really heady ideas and scientific jargon. I found the overall plot and the mystery behind the the game to be very fun.
第985条评论: It’s been a few days since I finished this book, and after digesting the novel, I think I’m ready to share some thoughts. First, I freely admit that part of the appeal of this book comes from the novelty of reading a translated Chinese novel - it did not disappoint.The TranslationBefore I start talking about the book, I need to point out that the translator, Ken Liu, did beautifully. The prose is quite good, and Ken Liu did a marvelous job of retaining the differences in style and sentence construction between Chinese and American writing. I always appreciate metaphors, similes, analogies, etc. that are written by someone from another part of the world. We Americans have our preferred methods of explaining ideas, but reading these new voice from across the Pacific Ocean was quite refreshing.The NovelThe basic plot of The Three-Body Problem is relatively simple and is set against the backdrop of the Chinese Cultural Revolution. (Talk about a moment in history that gets glossed over here in ‘Murica. I knew nothing about this period in Chinese history. It's totally fascinating.) The action centers around several scientists who gaze at both the very large and the very small. Through a series of discoveries, deaths and mysteries, the problem of the three-body system presents itself as a big dumb object plot ...well, kinda - but it works very well. It’s unfortunate that the dust-jacket blrubs all spoil the fact that aliens are involved - it’s a rather neat moment when it happens, and it would have been even niftier if I hadn’t known it was going to happen. Stupid publishers. (But not so stupid that we want you to stop publishing! Just clarifying…)The science behind the titular three-body problem is also totally cool and mind-bendy (if you just run to Wikipedia and search for “three-body problem” it’ll kick back a basic overview of the concept), and one that I have never read about before. But Cixin Liu uses a sleek virtual reality video game to show slowly explain to the reader the erratic effects of a three-body solar system and how such a system would affect an orbiting planet, and the result is simple to understand and quite brilliant.To be fair, the plot does move very quickly, and the pacing occasionally feels uneven. Certainly most Western readers would balk at this, but I wonder if the novel's pacing is just part of the cultural differences between us and the Chinese. In addition, some reviewers have commented on the fact that Cixin Liu does a lot of telling rather than showing, and I agree, however, again I wonder how much of this is a difference between Western and Eastern expectations.If you’re looking for an American comparison, I would compare the novel’s pace and scope and the author’s writing style to Robert Charles Wilson, Greg Bear, or a long-winded Arthur C. Clarke, all of whom write about huge physics ideas using engaging plots, but no one would ever claim that their plots are “super exciting.”Overall, this is a fantastic novel, and a fantastic beginning to an already successful trilogy. The Three-Body Problem deserves a place on the bookshelf of Science Fiction Awesome alongside other classics such as Eon, Spin, and A Fire Upon the Deep. If this novel is indicative of the SciFi hiding in the East, then publishers, start hiring more translators and bringing these gems to the States. China’s first imported SciFi novel is a jewel indeed.P.S.Dear publisher,The dust jacket blurb claims that The Three-Body Problem contains the “scope of Dune and the rousing action of Independence Day.” So...you're saying it’s like...Star Wars? Yeah, no - not even close. The trilogy might reach the scope of Dune eventually, but it barely leaves Earth in the the first novel. And as far as the “rousing action” of ID4, not by a long shot. This is a very slowly paced novel that focuses not on rousing action scenes, but on the aftermaths of action scenes, and conversations, and explanations. Will Smith it is not. Every once in a while a bullet will fly, but not very often at all. Surely you can come up with better ways to call this novel a classic and hook people rather than comparing it to Dune or ID4. Just sayin.’
第986条评论: The first half of this trilogy's first book is great. Intriguing mysteries are introduced, fascinating scientific questions are posed, hints about what everything is building toward are slyly dropped, and the reader gets a view of the history of Communist China through a critical lens that's wholly native, rather than Westernized. The main character's quest to discover the secret of the Three Body MMO world is mostly really fantastic sci-fi, characters like Detective Shi Qiang keep popping in to steal the show, and the language of the translation feels quite smooth and natural.And then, not long after the reader reaches the back half of the book, it all just... stops. The narrative and momentum of the story are brought to a grinding halt, and all of the mysteries are robbed of the chance to organically build to any sort of satisfying conclusion, because brother, it's time for a gigantic exposition dump. We say goodbye to all of our main characters and are shown first a series of flashbacks, and then some truly bonkers scenes on the enemy alien world, where the answers to all of the book's questions are painstakingly lain out one after the other in what could be the textbook example of telling instead of showing.The flashbacks to Ye Wenjie's final years at the Red Coast base aren't all that egregious by themselves, but when they're almost immediately followed by the book's visit to the planet Trisolaris, you realize that their overreliance on scientific technobabble is part of a larger problem. And oh boy, that visit to Trisolaris… you're ostensibly reading messages that the aliens have sent to their allies on Earth, but apparently those messages were written as prose and include insanely detailed descriptions of minute-by-minute events, conversations, and character decisions. And for some head-scratching reason, the intel that these aliens have received from their Earthbound spies and are now discussing includes incredibly specific and conveniently helpful details about our world, like how long it takes to build a particle accelerator or how quickly film is exposed when a photo is taken.The aliens then use this information to spend fifty pages ticking off a list of solutions to all of the book's dangling plot threads by shouting technical mumbo-jumbo at each other at a breakneck pace, without bothering to develop as characters in their own right, and without even stopping for breath when they accidentally unleash hostile intelligent life into their world's atmosphere. How... how is something like that brushed over so quickly and treated as a mere aside? It honestly feels like the author just gives up at this point. Why not let the story continue to build organically? There are two more books yet to come. You're allowed to have some cliffhangers going into the next volume.The thing is, I was mostly digging this book until I got to its absolutely baffling final act. It's a final act that jettisons all of the story's characters, pace, intrigue, cohesion, and overall goodwill in favor of an infodump that's ridiculously hurried yet still somehow tedious and overlong. Three stars out of five feels a bit generous (let's say it's 2.5 rounded up), but I’ll still give Book Two a shot --- I mean, there's a chance that it's more like the first half of Book One and less like the second half, right?... Right?
第987条评论: Wildly imaginative. I have not read a considerable amount of science fiction. I’m not a physicist, engineer, computer scientist, or a mathematician. Yet, I followed this story with intrigue and wonder as this novel took me to my scientific appreciation and delight at is innovative potentials. Writing a novel is an art. Liu gives us a compelling and engaging story that also entertains.
第988条评论: Steady build up ad a big reveal! This book really delivers an adventure. The science in it is a bit daunting at times
第989条评论: The main idea of the book is compelling, and for that alone it gets 3 stars, but I have three issues with it: (1) the science is explained clumsily and unconvincingly, (2) the characters are poorly developed and (3) the writing is strongly affected by the Chinese-to-English translation.The primary concept is fantastic.  There is an alien civilization (the Trisolarans) that exists on a planet in the Alpha Centauri system.  The Alpha Centauri system is a three-body system, resulting in chaotic weather patterns, hindering the advancement (and enjoyment) of the Trisolarans.  Their entire existence is about surviving these rapid shifts and their evolution seems to have prepared them to effectively 'hibernate' in periods of extreme heat or extreme cold.  The Trisolarans and Earth make contact  But the Trisolarans make contact with a disgruntled Chinese physicist who has been put through hell through the cultural revolution and distrusts humanity as a whole.  When the Trisolarans learn of the stability of Earth, they decide to take over the Earth.  The Trisolarans recognize that they will not be able to arrive to Earth for 400-some years and are worried that humanity will have developed substantially by the time they arrive.  To curb this, the Trisolarans try to leverage the disillusioned people on Earth (by using tactics similar to religions and cults) in order to halt the progress of science on Earth such that the Trisolarans will have a weaker opponent when they arrive.This central concept is fascinating.  You have an alien society with a clear purpose and objective.  The three-body nature of their world provides a fascinating explanation of their harsh perspective and survivalist nature.  The idea that contact would be made by someone who distrusts Earth is also fascinating.  And finally, the idea of an alien civilization using our religious proclivities in order to try to halt science to make an invasion more likely is compelling (and, scarily, feels like it would work to some extent).Unfortunately, once you branch out from the primary concept, the implementation is poor.  For example, the method through which the Trisolarans infiltrate the Earth is a cop-out.  The trisolarans have some magic device that is the size of a single proton (called a Sophon) that can (1) move at the speed of light, (2) make intelligent decisions at the same speed, and (3) influence the world at those speeds.  This 'sophon' can also transmit information simultaneously back to the Trisolarans through "entanglement".  I'm willing to accept the simultaneous transmission concept as an important sci-fi trope (although it has been disproven), but I earnestly think the story could have been more interesting if the Trisolarans had to think carefully about the four-year delayed messages and to rely more heavily on their human infiltrators to perform their deeds.  In addition, I simply cannot accept the magic, intelligent, light-fast particle idea.  It feels like a gimmick.  Early on in the book, there are a number of mysterious events that occur, and the reader is left thinking 'what could possibly explain these crazy phenomena'.  In the end, there is no explanation but a cheap, effectively omniscient and omnipresent particle.  It's effectively like saying the Trisolarans are god (minus the omnipotence).  It felt like the author decided he wanted certain things to occur (a countdown showing up in photos! the universe 'pulsing'!) and then had to come up with something that could create those occurrences, resulting in a hand-waving solution.  This is but one gripe, but there are a number of similar issues that arise during the book that other reviewers have explained.Finally, the character development is non-existent.  I think the author may have made a conscious choice to focus more on the effect on humanity as a whole instead of the effects on individuals, but I really wish I got to know these characters better.  What does Wang (one of the primary characters) think about his family and wife in the context of the potential end to civilization?  Has he told them anything?  How does he reconcile these issues?  I think these individual human responses to the terrible reality is important for getting the full context of the overall effect on humanity, and it just feels kinda empty without it.Finally, much of the writing feels sloppy.  However, I think this is largely because of the translation.  Translating from Chinese to English is notoriously difficult, and it comes across here.  The author gives some background with certain footnotes, but it still feels like a lot is lost in translation, especially in the dialogue, which feels stilted--like two intelligent and well-educated non-english speakers are trying to communicate.This book was good and I do not regret the few hours I spent reading it.  I will probably read the next book to see where things go.  But I thought this book had so much potential that was wasted.
第990条评论: I find it impossible to write about this remarkable series without spoilers, so spoilers ahoy!Man’s instinct for violence against ”others” — vividly detailed in early scenes set during the Chinese Cultural Revolution — triggers the events of this series, mirroring the bleak “axiom” proposed by a main character: to survive, intelligent life in the galaxy will be driven by imperative to commit genocide against other species. Far from being empty, the galaxy is teeming with advanced alien civilizations, all maintaining radio silence and ruthlessly exterminating any lifeform that betrays its location. Spy vs Spy on a galactic scale.The series is like Asimov’s Foundation, packed with epic events, thrills and magnificent hard-science concepts. But while just as deterministic as Hari Seldon’s “psychohistory," the “axiom” frames a grimmer universe. Whether or not you buy into the axiom, it marks a departure from most space operas, which present a universe of peril and hope. In Mr. Liu’s universe there is only peril. Ian M. Bank's Culture books are lighthearted romps compared to this trilogy.Something else Mr. Liu's series shares with Foundation is an occasionally flat and didactic storytelling style. Perhaps hard-science tales of this scope can’t avoid passages that read like a history textbook. Or perhaps the English translations, while skillful, can only go so far in adapting Chinese idiom for Western readers.Many of the characters are woefully two-dimensional (joke!). In Book 2 there's a embarrassing "dream lover" subplot in which a protagonist finds his ideal mate, a character so weirdly submissive and complacent I thought she would turn out to be an antagonist. But she ends up having little to do with the main story. In spite of this detour, the most vivid and compelling protagonists in the series are women.And for all its occasional issues with characterization and bland prose, the series just as often offers up nuggets of shining beauty and alternative narratives (a video game in the first book, children’s stories in the third). It zips back and forth from the prosaic and technical to the sublime and heart-rendingly tragic. The question “What if?” that animates all SF, crops up on almost every page. In particular, in the last part of the final book, weaponry that makes the Death Star look like a windup toy is responsible for some staggeringly beautiful and conceptually horrifying images of destruction.In terms of plotting, you can see the cataclysms coming a mile off (every time humanity gets complacent), but each time Mr. Liu shocks with audacious invention and a knack for putting an unexpected spin on your expectations.The series offers a contradictory message: humans are amoral, cruel, selfish, lazy, stupid apes; humans are redeemed by love, fortitude and unquenchable creativity. At the end, (big spoiler!) humanity is doomed by an act of love, a devastating reversal of standard tropes. Nonetheless, this catastrophe is presented as a redemption, of sorts.
第991条评论: The story is very insightful. Makes you wonder how we stand in the Milky Way.Hopefully, even though this is science fiction, may inspire a united world before any neighbors see us.
第992条评论: I like this book. It was a little slow in the beginning, but it picks up quickly and is hard to put down. As an added bonusthere is a history lesson on the cultural revolution in China. I spent some time in China, back in 1991. Back then, the cultural revolution wasn't talked about. And not much else because Tiananmen Square had just happened. This book is quite enlightening and get you and idea of what happens when intellectuals and freethinkers become the enemy.But this is grand science fiction. It has some good characters, a great plot, and though not totally satisfying ending,it is still what I expect from a great science fiction author.
第993条评论: Very difficult to follow the story when I did not know who was talking or who they were referring too.All these Chinese names that often sounded the same or only differ by a letter of two .I actually  made a list of all the names and who they were on a live of paper to try and folks the story . One third of the way through I decited it was too much work and I was not enjoying it.perhaps some day I will go back to it . Maybe it gets better later on hence all the good reviews.
第994条评论: Very unusual take on the usual "aliens headed to earth, what do we do" trope. Iʻm just now finishing Book 1 of this series and will stick with it to see how the characters deal with the challenges they built for themselves, both human AND alien.
第995条评论: It was refreshing to read science fiction that feels inherently different than the standard American/European science fiction.  The ideas are new to me but not in a way that feels foreign.When I got to the first chapter with the virtual game my first thought was, 'ugh, I hate stores about video games.'  If you feel the same I encourage you to stick it out.  The virtual game becomes integral to the story and you will soon enjoy it.I can't wait to read the next book!
第996条评论: This book broadens my breadth of science fiction authors that I like. Therein the reader gets a good glimpse of the huge intellectual leaps that have taken place in China since the grim days of the Cultural Revolution. Although the CCP does not get off very lightly (viz. the character of Da Shi) the author also is careful not to tread too heavily on the toes of the censors. This is good old-classical science fiction of the Arthur Clarke/Robert Heinlien/Larry Niven schools set in a country that is not well known for its science fiction. But it just goes to show how deep both an intellectual and a literary pool exists in the Central Kingdom.
第997条评论: If you want to understand quantum mechanics this is the book for you. I really enjoyed the manner in which history was woven into the story. I will probably be reading this many times.  My only reason for not giving 855 stars is that I'm lazy and it made me think too much!
第998条评论: This book had me hooked from the first page and didn't disappoint. It's alien-invasion narrative is original and stays away from tired cliches. It also avoids giving everything away, leaving a sense of mystery as the plot unfurls. I'm looking forward to part two to see how the plot develops.It's also the first book I've read by a Chinese author. The story is interwoven through the aftermath of the cultural revolution and projects the conflict of ideologies as represented by global powers projected out into the universe. Like most good sci-fi, it speaks about our own humanity as much as it does about the alien 'other'.
第999条评论: One dimensional characters, stilted writing (okay, sure, it's a translation,but) seriously bad science and way too much time spent with almost every character telling his life's story to other characters the fist time they meet.  Couldn't get halfway through.
第1000条评论: This story does what true science fiction should do - use elements of science to create a world in which to explore new/alternate ideas.  The story contains interesting bits of recent Chinese history without being political.  The story introduces the reader to interesting ideas in math and physics without overwhelming the reader.  The story does start a little slow but continuously builds throughout the book.
第1001条评论: The first book of the trilogy by this Chinese author. The author has epic visions of the future akin to Asimov's Foundation. He has extensive knowledge about leading edge science and technologies but also a keen awareness that the future has many roots in the present. The translation is of high quality and transmits the spirit of the text. The Chinese background of the author makes for an interesting alternative perspective to similar-class main-stream western science fiction. A page turner that makes for enjoyable reading for fans of epic science fiction. Highly recommended.